SIGNALS FROM MARS
TO REACH HARVARD
Cambridge , Massachusetts , Wednesday .
The Harvard College Radio Station has for several weeks been in receipt of fragmentary signals of extraordinarily long wave - length , Professor Hammond announced yesterday .
The university authorities will express no opinion as to whether or not these messages come from Mars .
I showed the newspaper item to Mrs. Farley , and lamented on Cabot ’s absence .
Her response opened up an entirely new line of thought .
Said she :
“ Does n’t the very fact that Mr. Cabot is n’t here
suggest to you that this may be a message , not from Mars , but from him ?
Or perhaps from the Princess Lilla , inquiring about him in case he has failed in his attempted return ? ”
That had never occurred to me !
How stupid !
What had I better do about it , if anything ?
” I asked .
Drop Professor Hammond a line ? ”
But Mrs. Farley was afraid that I would be taken for a crank .
So , after waiting an interminable time in the stuffy booth with my hands full of dimes , nickels , and quarters , I finally got my party .
Mr. Farley ?
This is Professor Kellogg , O. D. Kellogg , ” the voice replied .
Some further adventures Myles had told me in person during his stay on my farm .
Professor Hammond thinks that he is getting Mars on the air , ” the voice continued .
Yes , ” I replied .
I judged as much from what I read in this morning
’s paper .
But what do you think ? ”
Kellogg ’s reply gave my sluggish mind the second jolt which it had received that day .
Can you run up here and help me try and convince him ? ”
And so it was that I took the early boat next morning for Boston , and had lunch with the two professors .
I was the first to try the earphones , and was rewarded by a faint “ bzt - bzt ” like the song of a north woods blackfly .
In conventional radioese , I repeated the sounds to the Harvard group :
Dah - dit - dah - dit dah - dah - dit - dah .
Dah - dit - dah - dit dah - dah - dit - dah .
Dah - dit - dah - dit dah - dah - dit - dah .
Dah - dit - dit dit .
Dah - dit - dah - dit dit - dah dah - dit
dit dit dah - dah - dah dah .
Dah - dit - dah - dit dit - dah dah - dit - dit - dit dah - dah - dah dah .
Dah - dit - dah - dit dit - dah dah - dit - dit - dit - dah dah - dah - dah .
A look of incredulity spread over their faces .
Again came the same message , and again I repeated it .
You ’re spoofing us ! ” one of them shouted .
Give me the earphones .
And he snatched them from my head .
- O - T C - A - B
- O - T C - A - B - O - T— ”
Seizing the big leaf - switch , he threw it over .
The motor - generator began to hum .
Grasping the key , the Harvard engineer ticked off into space :
“ Cabot Cabot Cabot D - E— ”
Has this station a call letter ?
” he hurriedly asked me .
Yes , ” I answered quickly , “
One - X - X - B. ”
One - X - X - B
, ” he continued the ticking “ K. ”
Interplanetary communication was an established fact at last !
And not with Mars after all these years of scientific speculations .
But what meant more to me was that I was again in touch with my classmate Myles Standish Cabot , the radio man .
The next day a party of prominent scientists , accompanied by a telegrapher and two stenographers , arrived at my farm .
I have edited those notes into the following coherent story .
II TOO MUCH STATIC
Myles Cabot had returned to the earth to study the latest developments of modern terrestrial science for the benefit of the Cupian nation .
He was the regent of Cupia during the minority of his baby son , King Kew the Thirteenth .
The loyal Prince Toron occupied the throne in his absence .
What lay beyond the boiling seas no man knew .
S O S , Lilla .
Lightning had struck his aerial .
How long his unconsciousness lasted he knew not .
He was some time in regaining his senses .
But when he had finally and fully recovered , he found himself lying on a sandy beach beside a calm and placid lake beneath a silver sky .
He fell to wondering , vaguely and pleasantly , where he was and how he had got here .
Suddenly , however , his ears were jarred by a familiar sound .
At once his senses cleared , and he listened intently to the distant purring of a motor .
Yes , there could be no mistake ; an airplane was approaching .
Now he could see it , a speck in the sky , far down the beach .
Nearer and nearer it came .
Myles sprang to his feet .
To his intense surprise , he found that the effort threw him quite a distance into the air .
Instantly the idea flashed through his mind :
I must be on Mars !
Or some other strange planet .
This idea was vaguely reminiscent of something .
He wondered at the cause of this .
But his speculations were cut short by the alighting of the plane a hundred yards down the beach .
What was his horror when out of it clambered , not men but ants !
Ants , six - footed , and six feet high .
Huge ants , four of them , running toward him over the glistening sands .
Gone was all his languor , as he seized a piece of driftwood and prepared to defend himself .
He even recognized one of the ant - men as old Doggo , who had befriended him on his previous visit .
Could it be that all his adventures in Cupia had been naught but a dream ;
a recurring dream , in fact ?
Were his dear wife Lilla and his little son Kew merely figments of his imagination ?
Horrible thought !
And then events began to differ from those of the past ; for the three other Formians halted , and Doggo advanced alone .
By the agitation of the beast ’s antennae the earth man could see that it was talking to him .
Doggo understood , and scratched with his paw in Cupian shorthand on the silver sands the message : “ Myles Cabot , you are our prisoner .
What , again ?
” scratched Myles , then made a sign of submission .
Far below them were silver - green fields and tangled tropical woods , interspersed with rivulets and little ponds .
This was Cupia , his Cupia .
He was home once more , back again upon the planet which held all that was dear to him in two worlds .
His heart glowed with the warmth of homecoming .
What mattered it that he was now a prisoner , in the hands ( or , rather , claws ) of his old enemies , the Formians ?
He had been their prisoner before , and had escaped .
Once more he could escape , and rescue the Princess Lilla .
Poor girl !
He wondered what could have happened in Cupia since his departure , only a few sangths ago .
How was it that the ant - men had survived their airplane journey across the boiling seas ?
What had led them to return ?
Or perhaps these ants were a group who had hidden somewhere and thus had escaped the general extermination of their race .
In either event , how had they been able to reconquer Cupia ?
And where was their former leader , Yuri , the renegade Cupian prince ?
These and a hundred other similar questions flooded in upon the earth - man , as the Formian airship carried him , a captive , through the skies .
What uninhabited portion of Cupia could this be , over which they were now passing ?
Turning to Doggo , Myles extended his left palm , and made a motion as though writing on it with the thumb and forefinger of his right hand .
But the ant - man waved a negative with one of his forepaws .
It was evident that there were no writing materials aboard the ship .
Finally a small settlement loomed ahead .
It was of the familiar style of toy - building - block architecture affected by the ant - men , and , from its appearance , was very new .
On its outskirts further building operations were actively in progress .
As the earth - man was turning these thoughts over in his mind the plane softly settled down upon one of the flat roofs , and its occupants disembarked .
Three of the ants advanced menacingly toward Myles , but Doggo held them off .
Then all of the party descended down one of the ramps to the lower levels of the building .
The earth - man sighed .
Where was his beloved wife now ?
That she needed his help was certain .
He must therefore get busy .
It was a plain bare room , devoid of any furniture except a small table , for ant - men have no use for chairs and couches .
The sky outside was already beginning to pinken with the unseen sun .
With a sweep of his paw , Doggo indicated that this was to be Cabot ’s quarters .
Even so , it was better than nothing .
Myles put on this garment , and then quickly filled a sheet with questions :
How is my princess and my son , the baby king ?
Whence come all you Formians , whose race I thought had been exterminated ?
What part of Cupia is this ?
What is this city ?
Where is Prince Yuri ?
And what do you intend to do with me this time ? ”
Then he passed the paper and stylus over to his old friend Doggo .
They were alone together at last .
As he completed each sheet he passed it over to Myles , who read as follows :
As to your princess and your son , I know not , for this is not Cupia .
Our leader was Prince Yuri , erstwhile contender for the throne of Cupia , splendid even in defeat .
It was his brain that conceived our daring plan of escape .
At the worst we should merely meet death in another form , rather than at your hands .
So we essayed .
Your planes followed us , but turned back as we neared the area of terrific heat .
Soon the vapor closed over us , blotting our enemies and our native land from view .
For page after page Doggo , the ant - man , related the harrowing details of that perilous flight across the boiling seas , ending with the words :
Here we are , and here are you , in Yuriana , capitol of New Formia .
Oh , if only he had landed by chance upon the same beach as on his first journey through the skies !
Wisely he refrained from mentioning the “ S O S ” message from Lilla .
But his recollection of her predicament spurred him to be anxious about her rescue .
His immediate problem was to learn what the ant - men planned for him ; so the concluding words which he wrote upon the pad were :
And , now that you have me in your power , what shall you do with me ? ”
, ” Doggo wrote in reply , “ that depends entirely upon Yuri , our king , whose toga you now have on .
III YURI OR FORMIS ?
The earth - man grimaced , but then smiled .
Perhaps , his succeeding to the toga of King Yuri might prove to be an omen .
So Yuri is king of the ants ? ” he asked .
Yes , ” his captor replied , “ for Queen Formis did not survive the trip across the boiling seas .
Then what of your empire ? ” Myles inquired .
No queen .
No eggs .
How can your race continue ?
For you Formians are like the ants on my own planet Minos .
Doggo ’s reply astounded him .
Do you remember back at Wautoosa , I told you that some of us lesser Formians had occasionally laid eggs ?
So now behold before you Doggo , Admiral of the Formian Air Navy , and mother of a new Queen Formis .
This was truly a surprise !
All along Cabot had always regarded the Formians as mannish .
And rightly so , for they performed in their own country the duties assigned to men among the Cupians .
Furthermore , all Formians , save only the reigning Formis herself , were called by the Porovian pronoun , which corresponds to “
he ” in English .
When Myles had somewhat recovered from his astonishment , he warmly congratulated his friend by patting him on the side of the head , as is the Porovian custom .
Doggo , ” he wrote , “ this ought to constitute you a person of some importance among the Formians .
It ought to , ” the ant - man replied , “
but as a matter of fact , it merely intensifies
Yuri ’s mistrust and hatred of me .
Why do n’t you ?
” Myles wrote .
It seemed to him to be a bully good idea , and incidentally a solution of his own difficulties .
But Doggo wrote in horror , “ It would be treason ! ”
Then tore up all the correspondence .
It is difficult to inculcate the thought of independence in the mind of one reared in an autocracy .
The earth - man , however , persisted .
How many of the council can you count on , if the interests of Yuri should clash with those of Formis ? ”
Only one — myself .
And again Doggo tore up the correspondence .
Myles tactfully changed the subject .
Where is the arch - fiend now ? ” he asked .
We know not , ” the Formian wrote in reply .
Six days ago he left us in his airship and flew westward .
When he failed to return , we sent out scout planes to search for him , and we have been hunting ever since .
When we sighted you on the beach this morning we thought that you might be our lost leader , and that is why we landed and approached you .
At about this point the conversation was interrupted by a worker ant who brought food : roast alta and green aphid milk .
With what relish did the earth - man plunge into the feast , his first taste of Porovian delicacies in many months .
During the meal conversation lagged , owing to the difficulty of writing and eating at the same time .
But now Myles Cabot seized his pad and stylus and wrote :
Have you ever known me to fail in any undertaking on the planet Poros ? ”
No , ” the ant - man wrote in reply .
Have you ever known me to be untrue to a principle , a cause , or a friend ? ”
No , ” Doggo replied .
Then , ” Myles wrote , “ let us make your daughter queen in fact as well as in name .
It is treason , ” Doggo wrote in reply , but this time he did not tear up the correspondence .
Treason ? ”
Myles asked .
If he had spoken the word , he would have spoken it with scorn and derision .
Is it treason to support your own queen ?
What has become of the national pride of the once great Formians ?
I pledge myself to the cause of Formis , rightful Queen of Formia .
Formis , daughter of Doggo !
What say you ? ”
This time , as he tore up the correspondence , Doggo signified an affirmative .
And thus there resulted further correspondence .
Doggo , ” Myles wrote , “ can you get to the antenna of the queen ? ”
The ant - man indicated that he could .
If she has inherited any of your character , ” Myles continued , “ she will assert herself , if given half a chance .
So the Pitmanesque conversation continued .
Long since had the pink light of Porovian evening faded from the western sky .
The ceiling vapor - lamps were lit .
The night showed velvet - black through the slit - like windows .
Finally , as the dials indicated midnight , the two conspirators ceased their labors .
All was arranged for the coup d ’ etat .
They tore into shreds every scrap of used paper , leaving extant merely the ant - man ’s concluding words : “
Meanwhile you are my prisoner .
It hardly seemed possible !
Night before last he had slept peacefully on a conventional feather - bed in a little New England farmhouse .
Such are the mutations of fortune !
With these thoughts the returned wanderer lapsed into a deep and dreamless sleep .
When he awakened in the morning there was a guard posted at the door .
Doggo did not show up until nearly noon , when he rattled in , bristling with excitement .
Seizing the pad he wrote : “ A stormy session of the Council of Twelve !
We are all agreed that you must be indicted for high crimes and misdemeanors .
But the great question is as to just what we can charge you with .
I ca n’t assist you , ” the earth - man wrote .
How would it be if I were to slap your daughter ’s face , or something ?
Or why not try me for general cussedness ?
That is just what we finally decided to do , ” the ant - man wrote in reply .
We shall try you on general principles , and let the proper accusation develop from the evidence .
This will be the signal for the proclaiming of Queen Formis .
If you will waive counsel the trial can take place to - morrow .
All right , ” Doggo wrote , and the conference was at an end .
The morrow would decide the ascendancy of Myles Cabot or the Prince Yuri over the new continent .
THE COUP D’ETAT
The next morning Myles Cabot was led under guard to the council chamber of the dread thirteen : Formis and her twelve advisers .
The accused was placed in a wicker cage , from which he surveyed his surroundings as the proceedings opened .
On a raised platform stood the ant queen , surmounted by a scarlet canopy , which set off the perfect proportions of her jet - black body .
On each side of her stood six refined and intelligent ant - men , her councillors .
One of the twelve was Doggo .
Messenger ants hurried hither and thither .
First the accusation was read , Myles being furnished with a written copy .
The witnesses were then called .
They were veterans who had served in the wars in which Cabot had twice freed Cupia from the domination of its Formian oppressors .
They spoke with bitterness of the downfall of their beloved Formia .
Their testimony was brief .
Then the accused was asked if he wished to say anything in his own behalf .
Whereupon the queen and the council went into executive session .
As this dispute reached its height , a messenger ant rushed in and held up one paw .
Cabot ’s interpreter , not deeming this a part of the executive session , obligingly translated the following into writing :
The messenger : “
Yuri lives and reigns over Cupia .
It is his command that Cabot die .
It is the radio .
Supporters of Yuri still remained among the Cupians , and he has been in constant communication with these ever since shortly after our arrival here .
From them he learned of the return of Myles Cabot to the planet Minos .
Then Yuri disappeared .
Those of us who were closest to him suspected that he had gone back across the boiling seas to claim as his own the throne of Cupia .
But we hesitated to announce this until we were sure , for we feared that some of our own people would regard his departure as desertion .
Yet who can blame him for returning to his father - land and to the throne which is his by rights ? ”
To which the messenger added : “
And he offers to give us back our own old country , if we too will return across the boiling seas again .
It is a lie ! ”
Doggo shouted .
Yuri , usurper of the thrones of two continents .
” shouted Emu .
Yuri , our rightful leader , ” shouted Barth .
Give us a queen of our own race , ” shouted Fum .
Release the prisoner , ” shouted the Queen .
And that is all that Myles learned of the conversation , for his interpreter at this juncture stopped writing and obeyed the queen .
The earth - man was free !
With one bound he gained the throne , where fighting was already in progress between the two factions .
Seizing one of the pikes which supported the scarlet canopy , Myles wrenched it loose and drove it into the thorax of Barth .
In another instant the earth - man and Doggo stood beside the queen .
Ant - men now came pouring into the chamber through all the entrances , taking sides as they entered and sized up the situation .
As Myles battled with his pike beside Formis , queen of the ants , he could well imagine the conflicting shouts of “ Death to the usurper ! ”
Formia for the Formians !
Long Live Queen Formis !
So as he wielded the pike in silence , he had opportunity to reflect on the incongruity of his position .
Yet was she not the daughter of Doggo his only friend among the ants ?
And would not her victory mean the speedy return of Myles to his own continent ?
As the earth - man jabbed to right and left among the supporters of his enemy Yuri there came to his human ears the sound of rifle fire .
It might prove a godsend or an added menace , according to whose paw held the rifle .
But no chances must be taken on the life of the queen .
So Myles made frantic signs to Doggo of impending danger .
The queen and her supporters , outnumbered , were fighting with their backs to one of the walls of the room .
A short distance along this wall on the side where Cabot stood was a door ; so he now began edging his way along the wall to this door .
This was not difficult , as the ant - men , having only their mandibles to fight with , greatly respected his pike .
He gained the door and passed by , but not through it .
The shots came nearer and nearer .
Nevertheless , his enemies pressed so close that it was difficult for him to manipulate his long weapon .
In fact , it was only the jamming of the ants upon one another and upon the dead bodies of their slain comrades that kept them from him .
He now was holding his pike by the middle , with both hands , using one end as a club and the other as a dagger .
The black circle of the ants was steadily closing in on him .
A pair of mandibles from the left snapped angrily within a few inches of his throat .
Instantly he drove the point of his lance home between horrid jaws .
But at the same instant its butt was seized by a pair of jaws to his right .
He could not pull it free .
At last he was weaponless , and not only that , but pinned to the wall by the shaft of his own pike as well .
And then to his surprise the ants before him separated as at a command .
The butt of his lance was dropped .
Briefly the two surveyed each other .
Then slowly the rifle was raised until its aim settled squarely upon the earth - man ’s chest .
Instantaneously the glance of Myles Cabot swept the black hordes which hemmed him in on each side .
There was no escape !
Yet how can man die better , Than facing fearful odds ?
The astonished ant - man hastily pulled the trigger .
A shot rang out .
The Formian staggered back .
The rifle clattered to the floor .
Myles stood now in one of the entranceways of the council chamber , and thus was secure against flank attack .
But not against an assault from the rear .
In fact , even as he stood thus irresolute , a rattling noise behind him in the hallways revealed to his human ears the approach of a new enemy .
What was he to do ?
To remain as he was meant carte blanche to this newcomer , whereas to turn about would mean that those within the chamber would undoubtedly rush him .
From this position he could turn his head slightly to the left and see into the council chamber , or to the right and look down the long hall .
Directly opposite him was one of those narrow , slitlike windows , so typical of Porovian architecture .
It was too narrow for the passage of the huge body of an ant - man , but a human being could conceivably squeeze through .
Thus it offered a means out , a way of escape .
The lone ant in the corridor was joined by the others .
They and their compatriots within the chamber slowly closed in on the cornered earth - man .
There was no time to speculate upon the depth of the drop outside .
Hastily extricating himself , he looked up at the window which he had just quitted .
There , framed by the masonry , was the head of an ant - man .
A quick shot , and the head stared at him no more .
Then , extracting a cartridge from the magazine of his firearm , Cabot scratched upon the smooth wall the brief question :
What of Doggo and Formis ? ”
Emu snatched the cartridge and quickly wrote the reply : “
Dead , both dead .
The revolution has collapsed .
Flee for your life ! ”
Then the ant - man clattered rapidly off down the corridor , taking the precious cartridge with him .
He had not been too flustered to think of that .
Myles heaved a sigh of self - reproach at having brought his friends to this sad end .
But then , he reflected , Doggo had been in a situation in which conflict with the authorities and then execution would have been inevitable sooner or later .
The revolution had been his one best bet , and it was no one ’s fault that it had failed .
Now that Doggo and Formis were dead , there was no longer any obligation binding Myles to stay and fight .
In fact , he owed it to his loved ones in Cupia to preserve his own life until he could find some way of rejoining them .
So he set out to escape from the city .
For some time he threaded the corridors without meeting any ants , although occasionally there drifted down to him the sounds of fighting on the upper levels .
The ant ’s back was toward him .
Cabot cautiously withdrew a step ; then raising his rifle , he again advanced and fired full at his enemy .
But the hammer merely clicked .
There was no explosion .
The magazine was empty .
Cabot ’s first impulse was to throw the weapon away .
Then he reflected that even an unloaded gun might well serve to awe his enemies and hold them at a distance ; so he retained it .
Means of a communication with his own continent , if he could but reach the instruments !
The messenger had announced at the trial that Yuri was in Cupia and knew of Cabot ’s presence in this new land .
Thus it was certain that complete wireless communication had been established between the two continents .
This information would probably induce the renegade prince to speed up whatever nefarious schemes he had afoot in Cupia .
though he knew not how — to lead them .
So he quickened his pace , and soon caught sight again of the messenger ant .
Beyond the fields lay the rocky foothills of a mountain range .
Caution dictated that Cabot remain under the shelter of the city walls until the Formian disappeared among the rocks .
Then he ran lightly across the plain to take up the trail once more .
As he , too , gained the rocks , he glanced back to see if his departure had been noted .
No , there was no sign of life .
Evidently the fighting had drawn all the inhabitants to the interior of the city .
So , with a sigh of relief , Myles hurried after the messenger ant .
Pausing , he scratched his head in dismay , then carefully examined the ground for evidences of claw marks ; but none were apparent .
It was necessary for him to proceed with great rapidity , if he would catch up with the messenger ant , so Myles broke into a dog trot .
On and on he ran ; up , into the rocky mountains .
V LOST AMID THE ROCKS
But although Myles Cabot was lost , he was free for the first time since his return to Poros .
Myles Cabot accordingly stripped off a considerable portion of the foliage , and lay down in a bed of warm , thick green for the night .
The morning dawned silver bright .
Myles drew another meal from the grazing aphid and then pressed on up the rocky defile .
So on he went , up the rocky path .
Around noon the path petered out at the top of an eminence which gave Cabot an opportunity to survey the surrounding scenery .
To the westward lay the city from which he had fled .
What had become , he wondered , of the supporters of his friend Doggo and of Formis , the ant - queen , whose cause he had espoused ?
According to Emu , Doggo and Formis were both dead , or Cabot would never have deserted them .
Cabot turned his attention next to the northward .
To his great joy , on the next peak to the one where he sat , there stood two rough wooden towers , spanned by an aerial .
He decided to cut across country and attempt to approach the installation by stealth .
So he started scrambling down into the intervening valley .
Never before had the earth - man traveled through such difficult country .
Lying crossways in every direction , upon and between the rocks , were the gaunt skeletons of fallen trees in all stages of decay .
The sharp edges of the rocks cut and tore the bare feet of the earth - man , while the splinters of the fallen trees jabbed his body .
Through the maze of obstacles
Cabot toiled all day long .
Oh , to reach the radio station established by his enemy Yuri , and get into touch with his own continent .
Thus he could learn what was happening in Cupia , and also give word of his own safe arrival on the planet .
Safe , hm !
He smiled grimly at the word .
I must reach that station , ” he thought , “
and then , when I have talked with Cupia , I must secure a Formian plane by hook or by crook , and brave the boiling seas .
If ants have crossed those seas safely , if Yuri has safely crossed them twice , then why can not I , the Minorian ? ”
As he communed thus with himself , a faint pink flush appeared in the sky .
Slowly , painfully he continued his way .
Gradually the pink light turned to crimson in the west and then darkened to a royal purple .
Gradually the black night crept up out of the east .
He had had nothing to eat or drink since his breakfast of green milk that morning .
He had undergone an exhausting journey .
His feet were bruised and cut , his body covered with innumerable scratches , and he was weary , thirsty and hungry .
But he had almost reached the point which he had been seeking , and this thought comforted him as his eyes closed in healthy and dreamless sleep .
Next morning early he was up , rested , parched and ravenous .
As the first faint pink tinged the eastern sky Myles Cabot shook off the leaves and completed the ascent .
With a cry of joy — which he knew the earless Formians could not hear —
he raced toward it .
Imitation is the most insulting form of flattery , ” as Poblath , the Cupian philosopher , used to say .
Yet Cabot was willing to brook the insult , until suddenly it dawned on him that the set had no earphones nor microphone !
Of course not , since it was designed for use by creatures who possessed neither ears nor vocal speech !
Gone then was all hope of news from home , even if he could succeed in breaking in .
Well , even a chance to send to Cupia a message to the effect that he was free and safe , would be worth something .
Again and again he heaved the rock , until he had the satisfaction of seeing the door crack and then give .
A few minutes ’ scrutiny familiarized him with the details of the hook - up , the generator set , and the trophil - engine .
Everything was in running order and the fuel tank was full .
So he fashioned a rude sending key , broke one of the circuits and tied in the key .
But at that instant an arrow hummed through the hole in the door , and struck quivering in the bench beside him .
Cabot sprang to his feet and slid home the huge beam which barred the door on the inside .
This was a precaution which he had neglected to take before .
Next he filled the hole in the door with some boards hastily wrenched from the work - bench .
The result was immediate ; an arrow sped through the window and passed just above his head .
There came a cry of pain , followed by silence .
And there were no more feathered incursions .
From the first time the arrow had struck the work - bench until this final squelching of the unknown enemy , Myles had been engrossed in action .
Now came the reaction , as he realized how narrowly he had twice escaped from death in the last few minutes .
But being ever the inquisitive scientist , his attention was soon distracted by the arrow which stood sticking to the bench .
Its shaft was of some hard and very springy wood .
Its tip was of chipped stone resembling flint , and bound to the shaft by vegetable fibers .
Its “ feathers ” were thin laminae of wood , doubtless because birds , and hence true feathers , are unknown on Poros .
Why on earth
— or rather
, on Poros — were the ant - men employing such crude weapons ?
Rifles they had aplenty , and powder was easy to manufacture .
Thus these arrows presented a perplexing problem .
But a practical job remained to be performed before Myles was to have any time for abstract questions .
The message to Cupia must be sent off .
The earth - man returned to the radio set .
The trophil - engine and the generator were still running .
The whole apparatus appeared to be functioning properly .
And so Myles ticked off into space the following message :
CQ , CQ , CQ , DE , Cabot , Cabot , Cabot .
I have returned to Poros from Minos .
I am on the continent of the Formians .
I am in complete control there .
The message continued :
Do not expect me soon , for first I must consolidate what I have gained here .
But when I do come , Yuri beware !
My friends , hold out until then .
I have spoken .
DE , Cabot .
This message he sent again and again , at every wavelength of which the installation was capable .
He repeated and repeated it until he was tired .
And then , for the first time , he remembered his thirst and his hunger .
Fortunately there was both food and drink in the shack ; so Cabot satisfied his wants , and then went at his message again .
When at last he paused once more for a rest , and shut off the trophil - engine , his human ears caught a familiar rattling sound .
Instantly he realized the situation ; one or more ant - men were approaching .
Sure enough , as he looked out of a window in the direction of the sound , he saw two of these creatures trotting toward him across the plateau .
Both carried rifles slung at their backs ; so without waiting for their nearer approach Myles opened fire .
Cabot knew what that meant to him .
It portended the early return of the fugitive ant with scores of his fellows , to lay siege to the radio station .
Then a doubt occurred to him .
What if these ants were members of Doggo ’s faction , and he had killed a friend ?
And so at the risk of his life , he unbarred the door and rushed out to inspect the dead body .
But it was no ant whom he knew .
Time would tell whether the surviving ant would return with friends or foes .
Meanwhile Cabot must get busy with his message .
So at it again he went , first barring the door again .
From time to time he rested and listened for the approach of Formians .
Occasionally he ate and drank .
But mostly he stuck to his signaling .
Myles spent part of the night in sending his message , part in watching for approaching lights , and part in dozing .
It would be many sangths before a new radio set could be built , if indeed these Formians knew enough of the art to ever build another .
His work of destruction completed , he sat down to wait ; but the inaction palled on him , and before he knew it he had fallen sound asleep .
He awakened with a start .
It was broad daylight .
He listened .
There was much rattling outside .
So he walked to the door , unbarred it , and stepped out .
He was not afraid ; for on the evening before he had nailed above the door two crossed sticks , the Porovian equivalent of a flag of truce .
At a short distance stood a band of thirty or forty ant - men , their leader holding a pair of crossed sticks .
Accordingly the ragged earth - man advanced .
Not one of them did he recognize , but this was no indication of their identity .
Were these members of the Yuri faction , he wondered , or of the faction recently captained by the now deceased Doggo ?
If the former , they were conquerors intent on adding him to their list of conquests ; but if the latter , then they might be fugitives like himself .
It behooved him to find out .
So he proceeded to a slight depression in the mountain - top , very near the group of Formians .
This depression contained soil , and in it he scratched in Porovian shorthand the words : “ Yuri or Doggo ? ”
Then pointed to his message and withdrew for a slight distance .
The one word remaining written in the dirt was “ Yuri ! ”
So these were victorious enemies , rather than fugitive friends .
Waving a signal that the interview was at an end , Myles Cabot returned with dignity to the shack and pulled down his crossed sticks .
But then , instead of entering , he suddenly dashed around the house and slid down the mountainside amid a shower of pebbles .
The ant - men evidently feared an ambush , for they did not follow .
Accordingly the descent was easy , almost pleasant .
Startled , he sprang to his feet , seized his rifle , and looked around .
A second arrow sped through the air , and this one did not miss him .
In due course of time , Myles regained consciousness .
He was lying on the ground beneath the same tree .
There was an ugly gash in his head .
His rifle , ammunition , and food were gone .
His face and body were covered with clotted blood , and he felt very faint .
With difficulty he dragged himself to the stream , tore off a piece of his ragged toga , and washed away some of the gore .
But it required an almost superhuman effort .
He lay on the bank and panted .
His head swam .
His surroundings began to blur and dance about .
And then he swooned again .
After what seemed an interminable time he became dimly conscious that he was lying on something less hard than the ground .
Soft arms were around him .
Some one was crooning to him sweet words and low .
Was this a dream ?
Or was he back once more in Cupia with his loved ones ?
VI THE VAIRKINGS
Myles Cabot opened his weary eyes .
Around him hung barbaric tapestries .
He was lying on a couch covered by the same materials .
Seated on the couch beside him was a creature human in form , but covered with short golden - brown fur .
It seemed to be a young woman of some species .
But of what species ?
Myles threw back his head and studied the creature ’s face , expecting to see the prognathous features of some anthropoid ape .
But no ; for eyes , nose , mouth , ears , and all were human , distinctly human , and of high type .
The general effect reminded Cabot for all the world of a teddy bear .
Yes , that is what this creature was , an animated human teddy bear .
Seeing Cabot looking at her , the creature smiled down at him , and murmured some strange words in a soothing musical voice .
Also she stroked his cheek with one of her furry paws .
Bowing low before the furry lady , he spoke to her in the same soft tongue which she had employed in addressing Myles .
Not a single syllable was familiar to the earth - man , but he caught the words
“ Roy ” and “ Vairking ” repeated a number of times , and also made out that the furry man had addressed the furry lady as “ Arkilu .
The pad and charcoal gave Myles an idea .
If he was to stay any length of time with these creatures he had better start in at once learning both their written and their spoken language .
And perhaps , when he had mastered it , he could persuade these kindly yet warlike folk to assist him against the Formians .
He judged that they were kindly , because of the actions of the furry lady ; and they were warlike , because of the habiliments of the furry man .
Putting his idea into action , Myles sat up , gathering a gaudy blanket about his shoulders , and pointed to the writing materials .
With a furry smile Arkilu brought them to him .
Having been through this game once before , he knew just where to begin .
He pointed to the couch , and handed her the pad and charcoal .
Whereupon the lady spoke some absolutely unintelligible sound , and wrote upon the pad , in unmistakable Cupian shorthand , the familiar Cupian word for couch !
Myles could hardly believe his senses .
He stared at the paper , rubbed his eyes , and then stared again .
But perhaps this was merely a coincidence .
So he pointed to another object .
Again there came a strange sound , coupled with the familiar Cupian symbol .
The experiment was repeated and repeated , always with the same result .
Then Cabot himself took the writing materials and inscribed a number of words which sounded somewhat alike in Porovian antenna speech .
To these words Arkilu gave an entirely different set of similar sounds .
“ Aha , ” said Cabot to himself , “
this language employs exactly the same words as are used on our continent , but translates the sound - symbols of these words into entirely different sounds ! ”
Cabot ’s interpretation of the situation proved correct in the main , which fact made it extremely easy for him to master the new language .
Of course , all this progress was not made at one sitting , for Arkilu insisted that her patient take frequent rests .
From time to time meals were served by female attendants , meals abounding in strange meats , mostly lobsterlike , but some resembling fish and flesh .
Each night Arkilu departed , leaving a furry man - creature on guard , with leather armor and wooden spear .
As he mastered the language , Myles learned the following facts from Arkilu .
Her people were called the Vairkings , and she was the eldest daughter of Theoph , their ruler .
The Vairkings were a primitive race .
Apparently they knew nothing of any of the metals , but had made considerable progress in the arts of tanning , weaving and carpentry .
The fact that they had made cloth accounted for the fact that they had paper .
She explained as follows to her guest how he had been rescued : “
Our home is in the city of Vairkingi , far away , a little east of north from here .
But I spurned him .
His hordes then attacked Vairkingi , but we repulsed them and drove them to the southward .
At present we are on a punitive expedition into their territory .
Our warriors are under the command of Jud the Excuse - Maker ; and my father ( Theoph the Grim )
and I have accompanied the headquarters , so as to witness the downfall of Att the Terrible .
It was undoubtedly one of the Roies who wounded you , but the approach of our men drove them off before they had time to do you further harm .
Whence come you ? ”
I am from the planet Minos , O Arkilu the Beautiful , ” replied Cabot .
But the princess incredulously shook her head , saying , “
I know not whereof you speak , nor know I the meaning of the word ‘ planet .
Rumor has it right , ” Myles laconically interjected , “ for I had just escaped from those beasts when I was wounded by the arrow of the Roies .
Arkilu opened her eyes in wonder .
Tell me about them , ” she breathed .
Accordingly his account ran about as follows :
These beasts are called ‘ Formians ’ .
Cupians and Formians can not talk with their mouths as you and I. Nor
do they have ears to hear with .
Instead , they communicate by a kind of soundless magic , called ‘ radio ’ .
But they write the same language as do you Vairkings .
On the earth I was master of this magic , radio .
But one day my own magic proved too strong for me , and shot me through the skies to Formia , where the Formians captured me .
I found that the Cupians were the slaves of the Formians .
By means of radio I was able to talk with both races .
I escaped from the Formians .
By other magic , which could throw small black stones faster than arrows and with more deadly results , I led the Cupians to victory over their oppressors .
Their princess , Lilla , became my bride , and our son , Kew , now sits on the throne of Cupia .
But Prince Yuri , a renegade Cupian , rebelled against us , for he too loved Lilla ! ”
Myles continued : “
Yuri and his allies possessed magic wagons which could fly through the air— ”
What is ‘ fly ’ ? ” Arkilu interrupted .
If you mean ‘ swim ’ it is impossible , for no creature ever lived which could swim in air .
Ah , but this is magic , you must remember , ” he assured her .
Have you Vairkings never seen any peculiar black objects sailing through the sky since the rumored arrival of the Formians on your continent ? ”
Arkilu pursed her lips in thought .
Yes , ” she admitted , “ there have been rumors of that too .
Well , ” he continued ,
“ those were the flying wagons of the Formians .
But on my attempted return to Cupia I landed on your continent instead , by mistake , and was again captured by my Formian enemies .
Of my escape from them , my wounding by the Roy arrow , and my rescue by you , you already know .
Arkilu smiled ingratiatingly .
You are a pretty spinner of tales .
Therefore I shall keep you to amuse me .
Methinks that even Theoph the Grim will revel in your fantasies .
And she leaned over and caressed Cabot ’s cheek with one furry hand .
He cringed at the touch , yet strove not to offend her , whose continued friendship might mean so much toward his return to his own country .
He wanted her good will and her influence ; but , out of loyalty to Lilla , he dreaded her love .
To change the subject he inquired : “
When shall I be well enough to get up ? ”
You are well enough now , ” she replied “ Try to stand .
At Myles ’s insistence , a leather suit was sent for ; he soon found himself dressed like a soldier of the Vairkings .
Thus arrayed he stood and walked about a little inside the tent , but Arkilu would not permit him to venture outside until he should be stronger .
Before leaving for the night Arkilu announced : “ Tomorrow our expedition starts back for Vairkingi .
When we reach the city I shall marry you , for I have decided that I love you .
A happy prospect indeed !
Yet he dared not repulse the Vairkingian maiden , lest thereby he lose his chance of returning to his home and family .
So , for the present , he appeared to fall in with the matrimonial whim of the princess .
But , father , ” remonstrated a voice which Myles recognized as that of Arkilu , “
I found him , and therefore he is mine .
I want him .
He is beautiful ! ”
” a stern male voice sarcastically replied .
He must be , without any fur !
Oh , to think that my royal daughter would wish to we d a freak of nature , and a common soldier at that ! ”
He ’s not a common soldier !
” asserted the voice of Arkilu .
He wears clothes merely so as to preserve his health for my sake .
Well , a sickly cripple
then , ” answered her father
’s voice ,
which is just as bad .
At all events , Jud is the leader of this expedition , and therefore this captive belongs to him .
You can have him only if Jud so wills .
It is the law .
Myles Cabot stealthily crossed the tent and put his eye to an opening between the curtains at the tent opening .
There stood the familiar figure of Arkilu , and confronting her was a massive male Vairking .
His fur , however , was snow white , so that his general appearance resembled that of a polar bear .
His face was appropriately harsh and cold .
This was Theoph the Grim , ruler of the Vairkings !
The dispute continued .
And then there approached another man of the species .
He wore a leather helmet and carried a wooden lance .
Theoph the Grim hailed him with :
Ho , Jud , what brings you here ?
Jud raised his spear diagonally across his chest as a salute , and replied : “
A change of plans , excellency .
Upon reaching the river , I decided that it would be wiser not to return to Vairkingi by that route .
Really meaning , ” Arkilu interposed , with , a laugh , “ that you found it impossible to throw a bridge across at that point .
Why do you always doubt the reasons for my actions ? ”
Jud asked in an aggrieved tone .
You wrong me , ” she replied , “
I never doubt your reasons .
Your reasons are always of the best .
What I doubt is your excuses .
Enough , enough !
” the king shouted .
For I wish to discuss more immediate matters than nice distinctions of language .
Jud ’s reasons or excuses , or whatever , are good enough for me .
Jud , I wish to inform you that my daughter has recently captured a strange furless being , whom it is my pleasure to turn over to you .
I have not yet seen this oddity— ”
Father , please ! ” Arkilu begged , but at this juncture , Myles , exasperated by Theoph ’s remarks , parted the tent curtains and stepped out .
Look well , oh , king !
” he shouted .
Here stands Myles Cabot , the Minorian , beast from another world , freak of nature , sickly cripple , common soldier , and all that .
Look well , O king ! ”
A bit loud mouthed , I should say , ” Theoph the Grim sniffed , not one whit abashed .
Watch him crumple at the presence of a real man , ” added Jud the Excuse - Maker .
Suiting the action to the word , the latter stepped over to Myles and suddenly slapped him on the face .
As a boy , the earth - man had often seen larger boys point to their cheek or shoulder , with the words : “
There is an electric button there .
Touch it and something will fly out and hit you . ”
But never as a boy had he dared to press the magic button , for he could well imagine the result .
Jud was thrown for a four - yard loss with much of the breath knocked out of his body .
Theoph the Grim , with a worried frown , and Arkilu the Beautiful , with an entranced smile , stood by and watched the contest .
The Vairking noble lay motionless on his back as Myles scrambled to his knees astride the other ’s body and placed his hands on the other ’s shoulders .
But suddenly , the underdog threw up his left leg , caught Myles on the right shoulder and pushed him backward .
In an instant both men were on their feet again , glaring at each other .
Then they clinched and went down once more , this time with Jud on top .
Theoph ’s look changed to a smile , and Arkilu became worried .
His honor satisfied , Cabot arose , brushed himself off , and bowed to the two spectators .
Jud sheepishly got to his feet as well , all the fight knocked out of him .
As they passed through the curtains , Myles heard Jud the Excuse - Maker explaining to the king :
I decided to let him beat me , so that thereby I might give pleasure to her whom I love .
Myles was very sorry that it all had happened .
In the first place , he had lost his temper , which was to his discredit .
In the second place , he had made a hero of himself in the eyes of the lady whose love he was most anxious to avoid .
And in the third place , he had fought the man who was best calculated to protect him from that undesired love .
Altogether , he had made a mess of things , and all he could do about it was meekly submit to the ministrations of the furry princess .
What a life !
Finally Arkilu departed , leaving Cabot alone with recriminations for his rashness , longings for his own Princess Lilla , and worries for her safety .
The next day the expedition took up its delayed start homeward ,
Jud having found a route which required no alibis .
The tents were struck , and were piled with the other impedimenta on two - wheeled carts , which the common soldiers pulled with long ropes .
In spite of Arkilu ’s pleadings , Myles was assigned to one of these gangs , Theoph grimly remarking : “
If the hairless one is well enough to vanquish Jud , he is well enough to do his share of the work .
Jud explained to Arkilu that the real reason why he had suggested this was that he sincerely believed that the exercise would be good for Cabot ’s health .
I ’m not fighting to - day , ” Myles assured the Vairking with an engaging smile , “
but may I have a word with you ? ”
So the two withdrew a short distance out of earshot of the rest , and Myles continued : “ I do not love Arkilu the Beautiful .
You do .
Let us understand one another , and help one another .
You assist me to keep away from the princess , and I shall assist you by keeping away from the princess .
Later I shall make further suggestions as to how we can cooperate to mutual advantage .
I have spoken .
Jud stared at him with perplexed admiration .
Who are you ?
” he asked , “ who stands unabashed in the presence of kings and nobles , who addresses a superior without permission , and yet without offensive familiarity ? ”
I am Cabot the Minorian
, ” the other replied , “ ruler over Cupia , a nation larger and more powerful than yours .
A race of fearsome beasts have landed on the western shores of your continent .
They are enemies of mine , and will become enemies of yours as they extend their civilization and run counter to yours .
Impossible ! ”
Jud exclaimed .
For how could these mythical creatures cross the boiling seas to land on our shores ? ”
By magic , ” answered Myles , “ magic which they stole from me .
And they held me prisoner until I overthrew their magic and escaped , to be found by your expedition .
Then you are a magician ? ”
Yes . ”
Ah , that explains how you defeated me in combat yesterday , ” Jud asserted with a relieved sigh .
We will let it go at that , ” Myles agreed , smiling .
But to continue , let me frankly warn you that unless you destroy these Formians , they will eventually destroy you .
But if you will give a workroom and materials — and keep Arkilu away from me
Then I shall seize one of the Formian magic wagons , fly back in it to my own country , and leave you in peaceful dominion over this continent .
What do you say ? ”
I say , ” the Vairking replied , “ that you are an amusing fellow , and an able spinner of yarns .
But you talk with evident earnestness and sincerity .
Therefore I shall give you your workshop and your materials ; but on one condition , namely , that you entertain us likewise .
I have spoken .
This city was built entirely of wood .
Within the sections , each family had its own walled - off enclosure .
All streets and alleys passed between high wooded walls .
The buildings and fences were carved and gaudily colored .
As the returning expedition approached the great wall , they were met by blasts of trumpet music from the parapets .
Then a huge gate opened , and they passed inside .
Here they quickly separated , and each detachment hastened to the quarter of the nobleman from whom they had been drawn .
Jud and his detachment proceeded down many a high - walled street until they came to a gate bearing the insignia of Jud himself .
The noble led his new acquisition to a gate .
This inclosure is vacant , ” Jud explained .
It will be yours .
Enter and take possession .
Within , you will find a small house and a shop .
Serving maids will be sent from my own household to make you comfortable .
Repair to my palace to - night and tell me some more stories .
Meanwhile good - by for the present .
And he strode off and disappeared around a bend in the street .
Cabot passed in through the gate .
He found a well , from which he drew water to fill a carefully fashioned wooden pool .
Scarce had he finished bathing , when a group of furry girls arrived from the house of his patron bearing brooms and blankets and food .
One of them also bore a note which read as follows :
If you love me you will find a way to reach me .
And if not , what ? ” said Myles to himself .
After he had rested and dined , and the place had been made thoroughly neat , all the girls withdrew save the one who had brought the note .
She informed him that her name was “ Quivven ” and that she had been ordered to remain in the inclosure as his servant .
She was small and lithe .
Her hair was a brilliant yellow - gold , and her eyes were blue .
If it had not been for her fur , she would have passed for a twin to his own Lilla .
This fact brought an intense pang to him and caused such a wave of homesickness that he sat down on a couch and hid his face in his hands .
But the pretty creature made no attempt to comfort him .
Instead , she merely remarked half aloud to herself :
I wonder what Arkilu can possibly see in him .
Even Att the Terrible is much more handsome .
Finally , Myles arose with more determination and courage than he had felt at any time since his return to Poros .
Jud ’s palace was elaborate and barbaric .
Jud himself was seated on a divan surrounded by Vairkingian beauties .
Finally , the ladies withdrew , and Myles Cabot , the radio man , began the first discussion of radio that he had undertaken since his return to Poros .
VIII BUT WHY RADIO ?
Three fields of “ magic ” were open to him , rifle - fire , aviation , and radio .
The opportunity for building a workable airplane among people who knew no metal arts was obviously slight .
To make a radio set should be possible , if he could find certain minerals and other natural products , which ought to be available in almost any country .
Firearms would have enabled him to equip the Vairkings for battle against the Formians , whereas radio could serve no useful purpose at the moment .
Yet , he took up radio .
There would be plenty of time to arm the Vairkings after he found out how affairs stood at home .
So he broached to Jud his project of constructing a radio set , which would necessitate extended journeys in search of materials .
But the Vairking noble was singularly uninterested .
I know that you can spin interesting yarns , ” he said , “
but I do not know whether you can do magic .
First , you must convince me that you are a magician ; then perhaps I may consent to your attempting further magic .
Very well , ” the earth - man replied .
Tomorrow evening I shall display to you some of the more simple examples of my art .
Meanwhile , I shall spend my time concocting mystic spells in preparation for the occasion .
Then he bowed and withdrew , thanking his lucky stars that he had learned a few tricks of sleight - of - hand while at college .
Myles now recalled several of these , and devoted most of the succeeding day to preparing a few simple bits of apparatus .
Then he practiced his tricks before the golden - furred Quivven , to her complete mystification .
That evening , he went again to the quarters of Jud the Excuse - Maker .
The same group was there as on the evening before , and in addition , several other Vairking men and their wives .
After an introduction by his host , the earth - man started in .
First he did , in rapid succession , some simple variations of sleight - of - hand .
Then pulling the curtain over toward one of the stone open - wick lamps which illuminated the chamber , he completely burned off the projecting bit of doth .
Myles stepped back in apparent terror as Jud seized his precious curtain and hunted for the scorched hole .
But there was no hole there ; the curtain was intact .
Oh , I was not afraid , ” Jud the Excuse - Maker explained .
I merely pretended fear , so as to try and confuse your magic .
Please do not do it again , ” the earth - man sternly admonished him .
The Vairking noble seated himself again .
His guests were enthralled .
This was a fitting climax for the evening .
The amateur conjurer bowed low and withdrew .
Quivven was waiting for him at his house , and reported that some one had torn a small piece out of one of the tapestries .
Several days later she found the piece , but alas , there was a hole burnt in the middle of it .
The next morning Jud the Excuse - Maker called at the quarters of Cabot , the furless .
It was a rare honor , so Cabot answered the door in person .
It was soon arranged that Cabot , with a bodyguard of some twenty Vairking soldiers and a low - ranking officer , should start on the morrow .
Myles was thrilled .
Now he was getting somewhere at last !
The rest of the day he devoted to preparing a list of the materials for which he must hunt .
To make a radio - telephone sending and receiving set , he would need dielectrics , copper wire , batteries , tubes , and iron .
For dielectrics , wood and mica would suffice .
Wood was common , and the Vairkings were skilled carpenters and carvers .
To make copper wire , he would need copper ore — preferably pyrites — quartz , limestone , and fuel .
The necessary furnaces he would built of brick ; any one can bake clay into bricks .
The Vairkings used charcoal in their open fires , and this would do nicely for his fuel .
For the wire - drawing dies he would use steel .
This disposed of the copper questions , and brought him to a consideration of iron , which he would need at various places in his apparatus .
This metal could be smelted from the slag of the copper furnaces , using an appropriate flux , such as fluorspar .
Cabot next turned his attention to his power source .
For some time he debated the question of whether or not to build a dynamo .
But how about the storage batteries ?
He was n’t quite sure how to find or make the necessary red and yellow lead salts for the packing plates .
Thus by the time that Cabot reached the contemplation of having either to find or make his lead compounds he decided to turn his attention to primary cells .
The jars could be made of pottery , or from the glass which was going to be necessary for his tubes anyhow .
Charcoal would furnish the carbon elements .
Zinc could easily be distilled from zincspar , if that particular form of ore were found .
Sal ammoniac solution could be made from the ammonia of animal refuse , common salt , and sulphuric acid .
Mass production of zinc carbon batteries should thus be an easy matter , and they would serve perfectly satisfactorily , as neither compactness nor portability was a requisite .
The radio man accordingly abandoned the idea of dynamos and accumulators in favor of large quantities of wet cells .
The tubes , it appeared to Myles , would present the greatest problem .
Platinum for the filaments , grids , and plates had been fairly common in nugget form in Cupia , and so presumably could be found in Vairkingia .
Glass , of course , would be easy to make .
Alcohol for laboratory burners could be distilled from decayed fruit .
But the chief stumbling block was how to exhaust the air from his tubes , and how to secure magnesium to use in completing the vacuum .
These matters he would have to leave to the future in the hope of a chance idea .
For the present there were enough elements to be collected so that he would be kept busy for a great many days .
Accordingly he copied off the following two lists :
Materials readily available :
Wood Wood ashes Charcoal Clay
Common salt White sand
Animal refuse Decayed fruit
Materials to hunt for :
Mica Copper ore Quartz Limestone Fluorspar Galena Zinc ore Platinum Chalk Magnesium
But that afternoon all his plans were disrupted by a message reading :
To The Furless One :
You are directed to appear for my amusement at my palace to - morrow .
Fail not .
Theoph The Grim .
That puts an end to my trip , ” he said to Quivven .
How do you suppose his majesty got wind that I am a conjurer ?
One of the guests at the show last night must have told him , ” she replied .
But something in her tone of voice caused Myles to look at her intently , and something in her expression caused him to say , “
You know more than you tell .
Out with it ! ”
Whereat Quivven shrugged her pretty golden shoulders , and replied , “ Why deceive you ?
Though you are so stupid that it is very easy .
Who brought you the note from Arkilu the night of your arrival here ?
You did , ” Cabot answered .
Why did n’t
I put two and two together before ?
Then you are connected in some way with Arkilu ? ”
She laughed contemptuously .
How did you guess it ? ” she taunted .
I am Quivven the Golden Flame , daughter of Theoph the Grim , and it is from me that he learned of your mystic abilities .
What do you think of that , beast ?
Whereat she suddenly burst into tears and rushed out of the room .
It was a sulky Quivven who served his meal that evening , so much so that Cabot playfully accused her of putting poison in his stew .
This did not render her any more gracious , however .
If I did not love my sister very much , ” she asserted , “
I would not stand for you for one moment .
The rest of the meal was eaten in silence during which Cabot had an idea .
So when the food had been cleared away he asked the aureate maiden , “ Can you smuggle a note to your sister for me ? ”
Yes , ” she assented gloomily , “
and I shall tell her how you are treating me .
At which he could not refrain from remarking ,
Do you know , Quivven
, I believe that you are falling in love with me .
You beast !
she cried at him .
Oh , I hate you ,
I hate you , I hate you ! ”
And she turned her face to the wall .
Come , come ! ” said Cabot soothingly .
n’t mean to tease you , and we must both think of your sister .
The note .
How long will it take you to deliver it and return ? ”
I hurry ?
” she asked guardedly .
Yes . ”
Then it will take me less than one - twelfth of a day .
That would be quite sufficient for his plans .
Accordingly he wrote :
The Beautiful :
Send word how I can see you after the performance .
But beware of Jud .
Cabot The Magician .
This note he folded up , placed it in the palm of Quivven , and closed her golden fingers over it .
Whereat she sprang back with , “
you dare touch me like that ! ” and rushed out of the house , sobbing angrily .
He must at least be polite to the sister of his benefactress .
Heaven forbid , when he loved his own distant Lilla so intensely !
Myles told Jud of the note from Theoph the Grim requiring his presence at the royal palace , and how he suspected that Princess Arkilu was responsible .
I shall have her removed at once , ” the Vairking asserted .
But a new one we never could be sure of .
Then he told how he had gotten rid of Quivven for the evening by sending her with a note to Arkilu .
Jud ’s brow darkened .
Oh , I would have done that anyhow , ” Jud insisted .
My plans are all made .
I shall send a runner to Theoph , and warn him to search Arkilu ’s room for your note .
When he finds the note he will certainly cancel the arrangements for your performance .
Thus will the note serve a fourth purpose .
Return now to your quarters , and I will send you word of the outcome .
I would n’t
if I were you , ” Myles admonished .
For a message from you would reveal to our fair young spy the fact of my secret interview with you this evening .
Let Theoph himself send the word .
So be it .
You may count on starting on your expedition to - morrow as planned .
Good luck to you .
Good luck to you , Jud the Great , and may you win Arkilu the Beautiful .
So the earth - man hastened back to his quarters , where Quivven , on her return , found him placidly reclining on a divan .
That was so ; he had written Arkilu a note ; but now that it had served its purpose he had completely forgotten about it .
How could he square himself with little Quivven ?
By flattery ?
Of course I ’m anxious to know , ” he asserted , “
but I was so glad to have you come back again that for the moment I neglected to ask you .
Quivven the Golden Flame pouted .
Now you ’re teasing me again
, ” she said , “
and I wo n’t stand for it .
But I really want to know , ” he continued with mock eagerness .
Please do tell me about your sister .
I gave her the note— ”
Just then there came a loud pounding on the gate outside ; so loud , in fact , that the sound penetrated within the house .
Quivven stopped talking .
She and Myles listened intently .
The pounding continued .
Evidently we are to have company this evening , ” he remarked , glad to change the subject .
Quivven replied , “ Such a racket at this time of night can mean naught but ill .
Let us approach the gate with care , and question the intruders .
So saying , she took down one of the hanging stone lamps and opened the outside door .
Who is there ? ”
Quivven called .
To this there came back the peremptory shout :
“ Open quickly , in the name of Theoph the Grim ! ”
The golden girl recoiled .
I am afraid your father has intercepted my letter to your sister , ” Cabot explained .
I tell you what !
You leave by the rear door , make your way quickly to Arkilu , and see if the two of you can intercede for me with your stern parent .
So saying , he released her .
The slim princess handed him the light , and sped into the interior of the house .
Cease your noise ! ” he shouted .
For I , Myles Cabot the Minorian , come to unbar the gate in person ! ”
He strode down the path .
But his lamp was instantly dashed from him and his arms bound behind him .
As soon as the prisoner was securely bound the guard hustled him roughly off down the street .
Thus were his plans rudely dashed to the ground .
That morning he had been forced to postpone his trip , in order to perform before Theoph the Grim .
And this evening he was Theoph ’s prisoner , slated for — what ?
IX A PRISONER
Where are they going to take me now ?
” Myles wondered .
This question was soon answered , for the party entered a building which was evidently a dwelling of the better class .
The hall was well lighted , so that Miles blinked at the sudden glare .
The leader of the party placed himself squarely in front of his prisoner , with hands on his hips , and remarked with apparent irrelevance :
Well , we fooled Quivven , did n’t we ? ”
The prisoner stared at him in surprise .
It was Jud !
Jud , disguised as a common soldier .
Cabot laughed with relief .
You certainly gave me a bad hundred - and - forty - fourth part of a day , ” he asserted .
I did n’t recognize you in your street clothes .
What is the great idea ?
The great idea ’ , ” the noble replied , “ to quote your phrase , is that I did truly represent Theoph the Grim .
He authorized me to arrest you in his name .
The pretty little spy will report your capture to Arkilu , and her father will stonily refuse to reveal where you are imprisoned .
Meanwhile I shall give the golden one time to escape , and shall then send a second squad to seize your effects .
Your expedition will start immediately .
Come , unbind the prisoner .
As soon as his bonds were loosed , Myles warmly grasped the hand of his benefactor .
You are all right ! ” he exclaimed .
You have completely succeeded without leaving anything to explain .
I always succeed , and never have to explain anything ! ”
Jud replied a bit coldly .
In silence , and with the minimum of lights , they threaded the streets of Jud ’s compound
and then the streets of the city until they came to the west gate , where a pass signed by Theoph the Grim gave them free exit .
Thence they moved due westward across the plain , with scouts thrown out to guard against contact with any roving Roies .
By daybreak they had reached the cover of the wooded foothills , and there they camped for a full day of much needed rest .
Finally , on the second morning following their stealthy departure from Vairkingi , their journey really started .
The commander of the bodyguard was an intelligent youth named Crota .
After listening intently to this description for about the fifth time , Crota smiled and said , “
This village , Sur by name , is only a day ’s journey to the southward .
Let us turn our steps thither and learn from the children where they get their toys .
Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings , ’ ” the earth - man quoted to himself .
Shortly thereafter they came in sight of the village itself .
Between the meal and bedtime the visiting soldiers strolled out to see the sights by the pale pink light of the unseen setting sun .
Cabot and Crota together walked to the west wall to observe the sunset .
As the two of them leaned on the parapet , a rattling noise on the rocky walk beside them disturbed their reverie .
Looking down , they saw three furry children rolling some small objects along the ground .
Tum - tum , ” Crota laconically announced , and sure enough it was one of the small game - cubes , which he had described to his companion .
Stop that ! ”
Crota shouted , grabbing him by one arm and pulling him away .
We do n’t want to keep your tum - tum ; we merely want to look at it .
This gentleman has never seen a tum - tum .
“ Gentleman ? ”
the boy replied from a safe distance .
Common soldier !
Bah ! ”
But Myles Cabot was too engrossed to notice the insult .
The small cube in his hand was undoubtedly a metallic crystal , but whether chalcopyrite or not he could not tell in the fading light .
In fact , it might be the sunset which gave the stone its coppery tinge .
The boy eagerly accepted the offer , remarking :
Thank you , sir .
You should take off those clothes .
It was a very neat and subtle compliment .
Gentlemen Vairkings never wore clothes .
Cabot was impressed .
Your name , my son ?
” he asked , patting the furry little creature on the head .
Tomo the Brief , ” was the reply .
I shall remember it .
Then he hurried back to the public hall , eager to examine his purchase by the light of the oil flares .
Sure enough , it turned out to be really pyrites , and by its deep color probably a pyrites rich in copper .
To this day Myles wears this cube as a pendant charm in commemoration of that momentous occasion .
Your name , my son ?
” Cabot had asked him .
My son ’ , ” thought Cabot .
I have a son of my own across the boiling seas on the continent of Cupia , and a wife , the most beautiful and sweetest lady in Poros .
They are in dire danger , or were many months ago when I received the S O S which led me to return through the skies to this planet .
Oh , how I wish that I could learn what that danger was , and what has happened to them since then ! ”
Perhaps there was still a chance of rescue , if he would but hurry .
The danger which had inspired his Lilla ’s call for help was undoubtedly due to the return of Prince Yuri across the boiling seas .
For all that Myles knew , Princess Lilla and the loyal Cupians were still holding out against their renegade prince .
The message which Cabot had ticked out into the ether from the radio station of the ants had been sent only a few days after the S O S.
Shortly after sunrise he awoke , and aroused Crota .
No time must be lost !
The Princess Lilla must be saved !
But there was nothing they could do until their hosts brought the food for the morning meal .
It was a beautiful sight ; a rocky wall out of a cleft in which there seemed to pour a waterfall of gold .
But on close inspection , every cube was seen to be nicked or bent or out of proportion , or jammed part way through or into some other cube .
Roies ! ”
Crota shouted .
Instantly every member of the party took cover with military precision behind some rock or tree .
They had not long to wait , for a shower of missiles from up the valley soon apprised them of the location of the enemy .
So the Vairkings thereafter remained alert .
We know not their number , ” Crota whispered to Cabot .
And since we have accomplished our mission let us return to Sur as speedily as possible .
Agreed , ” the earth - man replied .
The withdrawal was accomplished as follows .
Crota first dispatched runners to the village to inform the inhabitants of the situation .
The enemy kept pretty well hidden , but it was evident from the increase of arrows and pebbles that their numbers were steadily augmenting .
Noting this , Crota sent another runner ahead with this information .
It now became necessary to replenish and relieve the rear guard , of which several were dead , several more wounded and the rest tired and out of ammunition .
This done , Crota ordered the main body of his force to leave cover and take up the double quick .
The result was unexpected .
But the Roies so greatly outnumbered the Vairkings that the tide could not be stemmed , and soon the two groups were mingled together in a seething mass .
The first rush was met , spear on spear .
Then the sharp wooden swords were drawn , and Cabot found himself lunging and parrying against three naked furry warriors .
The neck was the vulnerable spot of the Vairkings , and it was this point which the Roies strove to reach , as Cabot soon noted .
That simplified matters , for guarding one ’s neck against such crude swordsmen as these furry aborigines was easy for a skilled fencer such as he .
Accordingly , one by one , he ran three antagonists through the body .
Cabot paused to draw breath , and was just viewing with satisfaction the lucky results of his chance throw , when a peremptory command of “ Yield ! ”
behind him caused him to wheel about and confront a new enemy .
The author of the shout was a massive furry warrior with a placid , almost bovine , face , which nevertheless betokened considerable intellect .
And to whom would I yield , if I did yield ? ”
Myles asked , facing unarmed the poised sword of his new enemy .
Grod the Silent , King of the Roies , ” was the dignified reply .
I thought that Att the Terrible was king of your people , ” the earth - man returned , sparring for time .
That is what Att thinks too , ” the other answered with a slight smile .
But the smile was short - lived , for Myles Cabot , having momentarily distracted his opponent
’s attention by this conversation , stepped suddenly under the guard of the furry Grod , and planted his fist square on Grod ’s fat chin .
Down crashed the king , his sword clattering from his nerveless hand .
In an instant Myles snatched up the blade and bestrode his prostrate foe .
Just as he was about to plunge its point into Grod ’s vitals , there occurred to him the proverb of Poblath :
While enemies dispute , the realm is at peace .
He would leave the fallen Roy for dead , rather than put him actually in that condition .
Accordingly , he sprang to the aid of his companions .
Crota was already back in the fray , his own sword in his hands once more , and the sword of his late burly opponent slung at his side .
Quite evidently he did not intend to be disarmed again .
Three Vairking common soldiers and Crota and Myles now confronted seven Roies .
The contending twelve immediately separated .
Cabot and his followers passed within the protection of his rescuers and the return to Sur was renewed .
Arrows now began to fly from below at the ascending Vairking party , several of whom toppled and fell down the face of the cliff .
The wounded man still breathed , though hoarsely , and his heart still beat ; but there was a gaping hole in one side of his chest .
No arrow protruding from this hole .
Myles tenderly turned the man over to see if the wound extended clear through .
It did — almost .
And from the man
’s side there projected the tip of a bullet , the steel - sheathed tip of a leaden rifle bullet !
X THE SIEGE OF SUR
Myles quickly extracted the bullet from the back of the wounded Vairking .
Then tender furry female hands bore the victim away , as the earth - man stood in thoughtful contemplation of his find .
There could be no doubt of it .
This was a steel - jacketed bullet , identical with those used in the rifles of the ant - men .
How came such a weapon in the hands of the savage and untrained Roies ?
It was inconceivable that these uncultured brutes had overwhelmed New Formia and captured the weapons of the ant - men .
But this last idea was improbable , due to the well - known shortage of rifles and ammunition at Yuriana , capital of the new ant empire .
This opened up new terrors for the village of Sur and its inhabitants .
Sur was safe for the moment .
His musings thus completed , Myles hurried to the public hall to communicate this discovery to Crota and the village authorities .
He found the headman already there in conference with Crota .
Said Myles , exhibiting the bullet : “
It is big magic !
With its aid , the Roies can overcome us .
Without it , I am powerless .
Therefore , we must secure possession of it .
What do you suggest ? ”
Crota replied : “
It is now sunset .
Let us select a squad of picked scouts and try to stalk the camp of the enemy .
No , no ! ” the headman of Sur exclaimed in horror .
Never have our men dared to attack the Roies by dark .
Do the Roies know this ?
Myles asked with interest .
Most certainly , ” was the reply .
Then , ” he said , “ all the more reason for attempting it They will be unprepared .
The magistrate shrugged his furry shoulders with : “ If you can persuade any men of Sur to attempt anything so foolhardy , I shall interpose no objection .
Just as Cabot arrived at this observation post , a Roy warrior was declaiming : “
I told you it would work , for had I not seen it demonstrated fully to me ?
You yourselves saw it kill .
Now will you not believe me ? ”
Another spoke :
I can not understand its principle .
How can a weapon kill afar , and yet not resemble either a sling or a bow ? ”
And another :
Show us how it works , friend .
Then perhaps we may be persuaded .
And a third : “ I do not believe that he has it .
Whereat , the original speaker , nettled , spoke again :
It is in my tent there , you doubters , ” indicating the one beside which Cabot crouched .
Quick as a flash , Cabot wriggled beneath the back of the tent into its interior .
The conversation outside continued .
Prove , or be silent ! ” said a voice .
You saw the Vairking fall , did you not ?
” the original speaker replied .
True , but I did not see you sling any pebble .
Meanwhile , Cabot continued his frantic search .
At last , it was rewarded .
In one corner of the tent , his groping fingers closed upon a Formian rifle and a bandolier of cartridges .
A thrill ran through him at the touch .
That ought to be proof enough even for a stupid one like you .
I have said it ! ”
The signal for my exit , ” Myles said to himself , as he hastened to crawl out through the back of the tent , but then he reflected :
No , I want more than this gun and ammunition ; I want information .
So he remained .
The struggle was over in a few moments .
The conversation at the camp fire continued .
One of the warriors was saying : “
Our friend takes long to find his wonderful sling - shot .
Methinks he was lying and does not dare to face us .
Said another voice : “
Let us pull him from his tent and confront him with his perfidy .
At this , Myles sprang to his feet and ran to the cover which concealed his followers .
Rush in among them as we planned , ” he urged , “ while you two come with me .
Straight through the camp they charged , shouting : “ Make way for Att the Terrible ! ”
Then they circled the hill under cover of the darkness and rejoined Myles .
The startled Roies were taken completely by surprise .
The confusion was complete , and never for a moment did the naked furry savages suspect that the whole trouble had been caused by a mere handful of Vairkings .
Truly , as Poblath the Philosopher has said , “
While enemies dispute , the realm is at peace .
While the Roy followers of Grod the Silent fought among themselves until they gradually discovered that there was no one there except themselves ,
Myles Cabot and his Vairkings safely regained the Village of Sur with the rifle , the ammunition , and the still unconscious Roy warrior .
Where am I ?
” he asked , rubbing his eyes .
In Sur , ” some one replied .
Then are we victorious ?
For never before has a Roy set foot in Sur . ”
No , your forces are not victorious , ” Crota answered .
You are a prisoner .
And it is only by the grace of Cabot the Minorian that you are permitted to come here even as a prisoner .
For the men of Sur take no prisoners , and give no quarter .
In reply , Myles himself stepped forward .
I myself , am Cabot the Minorian , ” he said .
To which Crota added impressively : “
The greatest magician of two worlds ! ”
The prisoner shook his head .
I know of only one world , ” he asserted , “ and
this man before me is dressed as a mere common soldier , as are all of you .
But the Roy warrior was not to be subdued by language .
How did I come here ? ” he asked .
You did not come here , ” Myles answered .
You were brought .
I brought you .
But how ? ”
By magic .
What magic ? ”
My magic cart which swims through the air as a reptile swims through the waters of a lake .
True , ” the Roy mused , “ there be such aerial wagons , for I have seen them near the city of the beasts of the south .
Mark well ! ”
Myles interjected to the assembled Vairkings , then to the prisoner again :
I captured you because you possessed the magic sling - shot , and presumed to use it on one of my own men .
This effrontery could not be permitted to go unpunished ; hence your capture .
The offending weapon is now mine , and you are my prisoner .
What do you propose to do with me ? ” the captive asked .
I propose to ask you some questions , ” Myles evaded .
First where did you get the magic sling - shot ? ”
The great magician knows everything , ” the Roy replied , with a sneer .
Why , then , should I presume to tell him anything ? ”
But the earth - man remained unruffled .
You are correct , ” he countered .
I ask , not because I do not already know , but
because I wish to test whether it is possible for one of your degraded race to tell the truth .
Why test that ?
” came back the brazen Roy , “ for doubtless you , who know everything , know that , too .
Myles could not help admiring the insulting calm with which this furry man of inferior race confronted his relentless captors .
Who are you , rash one ? ” he asked .
The prisoner drew himself up proudly , with folded arms , and answered : “
I am Otto the Bold , son of Grod the Silent .
Ah , ” Myles said , “ the son of a king .
And I am the father of a king .
Well , then , as one man to another , tell me where you got this gun .
Gun ? ”
Otto queried .
Is that the name of this weapon of bad omen ?
the Excuse - Maker drove me off .
I have spoken ! ”
And spoken truly , ” Cabot replied , concealing his surprise with difficulty .
Of course .
Why had he not guessed it before ?
But there were still some more points to clear up , so he continued : “
Why did you shoot those two arrows at me in the house at the top of the mountains ? ”
Because we wished to explore the house .
But you killed my companion , whereupon I resolved to kill you in revenge , and to capture the noisy
gun’—and is that the right word ?
So I trailed you .
The rest you know .
Remember , I know everything , ” Myles said , grinning .
But did you ever see any one but me shoot the gun ? ”
You know I never did , ” was the reply .
No one on Poros , save Cabot the Magician and Otto the Bold , has ever done this big magic .
The earth - man heaved a sigh of relief .
There existed as yet no alliance between the Formians and the Roies .
Pray Heaven that such a calamity would never suggest itself to the minds of either race ; for if so , then woe to Vairkingia !
“ Son of a king , ” he said , “ return to your people and your father .
Go now .
My men will give you safe conduct to the plain below .
And what is the price of this freedom ? ”
Otto disdainfully inquired .
The friendship of a king ’s father for a king ’s son , ” Myles Cabot replied with dignity .
The two drew themselves up proudly and regarded each other eye - to - eye for a moment .
It is well , ” Otto the Bold declared .
Good - by .
And he departed under the escort of a Vairking guard .
The master knows best , ” Crota remarked , sadly shaking his head , “ but I should have run the wretch through the body .
The party had gone but a short distance when they found the way barred by a formidable body of Roies .
But before these came within bow - shot a bullet from Cabot ’s rifle brought two of them to the ground , whereupon the rest turned and fled precipitately .
Later in the day a bend in the road brought them suddenly upon a furry warrior .
Myles fired , and the man instantly fell to the ground .
But when they reached the body there was not even a scratch to be found on it ; the bullet had missed .
Dead of fright , ” Myles thought ; but no , for the heart was still beating , although faintly , and the lungs were still functioning .
Sit up there ! ”
Myles ordered .
, ” The Roy replied .
I ’m dead .
Then I ’ll make you alive again , ” his captor declared , placing his hands on the head of the Roy .
Abra cadabra camunya .
Thereat the soldier sat up with a sigh of relief , and opened his eyes .
Stand up ! ”
Myles ordered .
For reply the Roy jumped to his feet and started running for cover .
“ Halt !
” the earth - man commanded .
Halt , or I ’ll kill you again !
The man stopped .
Return ! ”
The man returned , like a sleep walker .
What do you mean by running away ?
Now listen intently .
Are you one of the men of Grod ? ”
Yes . ”
Tell Otto that he can recognize my expedition by the blue flags which they will carry hereafter .
Now go .
I have spoken .
The Roy warrior ran up the trail and this time was not halted .
Another mistake , ” Crota remarked , half to himself .
The rest of the return to Vairkingi was without event .
On the way the radio man made notes of the best deposits of quartz , limestone , and fluorspar .
Also he carried with him a few large sheets of mica .
But he found no traces of galena , zinc ore , or platinum .
These would require at least one further expedition .
Also the long deferred sleight - of - hand performance was held at the palace , to the great mystification of the white - furred king .
Arkilu did not show up to mar the occasion .
Needless to say , Jud had taken every possible advantage of Cabot ’s absence to reinstate himself with the chestnut - furred princess .
But neither Myles nor Quivven appeared to exhibit any very great sorrow at this turn of affairs .
So long as Arkilu ’s hostility did not become active , the support of Jud and Theoph ought to prove quite sufficient .
The standing of Cabot the Minorian as a magician was now well established , and accordingly Jud the Excuse - Maker and even Theoph
the Grim were willing to accord him all possible assistance in the gathering of the materials with which he was to perform his further magic , namely radio .
Theoph made a levy upon all the nobles , and turned over to the earth - man upward of five hundred soldiers with their proper carts and equipment .
Myles divided his men roughly into three groups .
One group , under Crota , he established at the clay deposits to the northeast of the city , to make bricks and charcoal .
The carters carried back with them to the mountains all the necessary supplies for the expeditions .
The third group , under Quivven , were engaged in setting up the grist mill , and in other building and preparatory operations .
At the claypits the first operation was to scrape off the surface clay and spread it out thin in the open air , so it would age fast .
The limestone , upon its arrival at the brickyard , was burned in raw brick ovens , and then carted to Vairkingi , to be ground at the mill .
It was then shipped back to the brick plant , where it was mixed with the aged clay —
first screened — molded into bricks , baked , burned , and carted to Vairkingi , to be ground into cement .
Some of the ground limestone was retained at Vairkingi for use in later glass - making , and some of the unground for smelting purposes .
Other aged clay was screened , moistened , molded , and baked to form ordinary brick .
Fire - brick was similarly made by the addition of white sand finely ground at Vairkingi , but this kind of brick had to be baked much more slowly .
Meanwhile Myles Cabot , with a small bodyguard , kept traveling from one job to another , giving general superintendence to the work .
And when everything was well under way he set out on another exploring expedition in search of galena , zinc ore , and platinum .
So thither he set out one morning , with camping equipment and a detachment of soldiers .
All day they marched northward across the level plains .
Toward evening they reached a small estuary of the main stream , and there they camped .
The pink turned to crimson , and then purple .
The darkness crept up out of the east , and plunged the whole face of the planet into velvet and impenetrable black .
But Myles Cabot did not return to the camping place .
XI ATT THE TERRIBLE
Falling on his knees , he picked up handful after handful of the silver sands .
There was still plenty of daylight left for him to examine the multitude of shiny metallic particles .
On the morrow he would wash for this metal , using the wooden pans which he had brought for that purpose .
The precious dust he would carry back to Vairkingi , melt it into small lumps if possible , and then try to analyze its composition in his laboratory .
It was many days since she had sent the S O S which had recalled him from earth to Poros .
Whatever she had feared must have happened by now .
It was possible that he would never be able to effect a return to Cupia .
Why not then accept the inevitable , settle down permanently among the Vairkings , and solace himself as best he could ?
Even an ordinarily stalwart soul would have done his best and have been satisfied with that .
But Myles Standish Cabot possessed that indomitable will which had given rise to the Porovian proverb :
You can not kill a Minorian .
To such a man , defeat was impossible .
He would rescue the Princess Lilla in the end ; that was all there was to it .
So he laid his plans with precision , as he sat on the sandy shore of the Porovian river in the crimsoning twilight .
Before the velvet darkness completely enveloped the planet , the earth - man arose from the sands , and began his return up the valley of the little estuary .
But , as he was hurrying along , and was passing through a small grove of trees , a dark form noiselessly dropped on him from above .
The creature lit squarely upon his back , wrapping its furry legs around his abdomen and its furry arms around his neck .
Down crashed the furry one !
Squirming quickly to a sitting position , he dealt the Roy who held his legs a stinging blow beside the ear .
Then scores of these furry savages swarmed upon him from every side .
Yet still he fought , until his elbows were pinioned behind his back , his eyes were blindfolded , and a gag was placed between his teeth .
So he offered no further resistance when he was picked up and thrown across a pair of brawny shoulders , and carried off , he knew not whither .
Finally , after what seemed many hours , he was unceremoniously dumped onto the ground , and then jerked roughly to his feet .
Beside him stood another Roy , evidently the one who had brought him thither .
This one now spoke .
See the pretty Vairking which I have brought you .
If that ’s a Vairking , ” the fat one remarked
, “ then I ’m my own father .
If he is n’t a Vairking , ” the other countered , “ then why does he wear Vairking leather armor ?
Answer me that .
“ Vairking or not , ” the fat one declared , “ he will do very nicely to string up by the heels and shoot arrows at .
For quite evidently , he is no Roy .
What say you to that , my fine target ?
The guard removed the gag .
I say , ” Myles evenly replied , “ that you had better not take any such liberties with me .
And why not , furless ? ” the seated Roy sneered .
First , let me ask you a question , ” Myles said .
Who is King of the Roies , Grod the Silent or Att
the Terrible ?
Grod the Silent , most assuredly .
Why do you ask ? ”
And do you know Prince Otto , his son ? ”
Otto the Bold ?
Most assuredly .
Furthermore , I am a particular personal friend of Otto the Bold .
He will not thank you to string up Cabot the Minorian by the heels , and shoot arrows into him .
I demand that I be taken before Prince Otto .
Thereat the fat Roy smiled a crafty smile .
I shall take you before Att the Terrible , ” he said .
The rest of the night Myles spent on a pile of smelly bedding in a tent .
He was still bound , and was kept under constant surveillance by a frequently changing guard .
By morning , his arms below the elbows had become completely numb , in spite of his having loosened his bonds somewhat by straining against them .
Myles thanked him politely , and then asked if he would mind chafing the numbed arms .
For reply , the soldier kicked him savagely .
Get up !
” he ordered .
The time is here to start the march .
You ’ll wish the rest of you were numb , too , when Att the Terrible starts shooting arrows into your inverted carcass .
The fat chief alone rode in a cart ; all the others walked .
After that he began to take some interest in his surroundings .
His captors were a coarse - looking lot of brutes , with long gangling arms , thickset necks , low foreheads , and prognathous jaws .
In general , they more closely resembled the anthropoid apes of the earth than they resembled the really human , although furred Vairkings .
Their weapons — wooden spears and swords , and flint knives — were like those of the Vairkings , only cruder .
They marched without any particular order or discipline , and jested coarsely with each other as they ambled along .
After taking in all this , Myles next turned his attention to the country through which they were passing .
The trail led upward into mountains .
This at once aroused his interest .
Here and there he noted what he felt sure must be zinc - blende .
Yes , and cropping out of the rocks on the left was an unmistakable rosette of galena crystal !
The radio man was sincerely glad that he had been captured .
And so he even joked jovially with the soldiers around him , until they became quite friendly .
At one point , their route lay across a foaming mountain stream , by means of a log bridge .
He happened to be one who had recently become particularly chummy with the captive .
Poor fellow , ” one of the guard casually remarked .
It ’s too bad he ca n’t swim .
I can , ” Myles shouted .
Quick , some one cut my cords !
It had all happened in an instant .
A few swift strokes brought Myles up to the other .
But it became no easy matter to reach the shore .
Then Cabot was bound again , and the march resumed .
The carts had detoured , and so the fat chief had not seen the episode .
Better not tell him , any one , ” one of the guard admonished , “ or it will go hard with the youngster .
Our leader would not relish any chance of not being able to present this furless
Vairking to Att the Terrible .
And will Att shoot arrows into me ? ” Myles asked .
Most assuredly .
Myles thought to himself :
I guess they are right , especially if Att knows how I was befriended by Arkilu , whom he covets ! ”
Then he asked : “
And when am I to see the Terrible One ? ”
To - morrow morning , ” was the reply .
But galena crystal was n’t going to help him any with Att the Terrible .
XII COMPANIONS IN MISERY
A voice spoke close to his ear :
A life for a life .
So you have that proverb on this continent as well as in Cupia ? ” was his reply .
Who are you , and what do you want ?
I am the soldier whom you saved from the raging mountain torrent , and what I want is to repay that favor .
It is really true that you are a friend of Otto the Bold ? ”
Yes . ”
Then come .
The forces of Grod the Silent , Prince Otto ’s father , are encamped but a short distance from here .
I am on guard over you for the moment .
Come , while there is yet time .
Cabot arose in haste .
The other promptly severed the cords which bound his elbows .
Oh , how good it felt to have his arms free once more !
He held them aloft , and flexed and reflexed the lame and bloodless muscles .
He drew a deep sigh of relief .
” the guard commanded .
Finally , after about two hours of this groping treadmill progress lights appeared ahead , and presently there came the sentry ’s challenge : “ Halt !
Who is there ? ”
Two messengers with word for Grod the Silent , ” Cabot ’s conductor replied .
In an aside , Cabot interestedly inquired : “
How does it happen that this camp is guarded , whereas the camp which besieged the village of Sur was not ? ”
There is no need to post sentinels when fighting against the Vairkings , for Vairkings never go out in the dark , but we Roies are different .
Why , then , did we meet no sentinels when leaving your camp ? ”
Because we were going out .
We passed one but he did not challenge us .
Coming back would be different .
At this point the hostile guard interposed :
“ Stop that whispering among yourselves .
Ho there , a light ! ”
Whereat a small detachment arrived on the double quick , with torches .
The leader shaded his eyes with one palm , and inspected Myles and his companion carefully .
This is a Vairking , ” he said in surprise , noting the leather trappings of the earth - man .
You are spies .
Seize them ! ”
In an instant they were seized and bound , and thrown into separate tents under guard .
When morning came , Myles was fed and then led before Grod the Silent .
The earth - man smiled ingratiatingly as he entered , but there was no sign of recognition on the stern face of the King of the Roies .
Who are you ?
” the latter asked , “ and what are you doing here ? ”
I am Cabot the Minorian , ” was the reply , “ a recently escaped prisoner of Att the Terrible .
Where have I seen you before ?
In the ravine near Sur . ”
Grod ’s brow clouded .
I remember .
You felled me with your fist , ” said he , darkly ; then brightening a bit :
But you spared me .
Why ? ”
Because your death would please the Roy whose name you do not permit me to mention .
You improve , ” Grod declared , smiling .
Know , then , that we Roies hold to the maxim ,
‘ A life for a life .
Accordingly , I shall set you free , and shall content myself with shooting arrows into merely the soldier who brought you here .
You give me a life for a life unconditionally ? ” asked Myles .
Yes . ”
Then give me the life of the poor soldier who saved me from the unmentionable one .
Shoot your arrows into my body instead .
Very magnanimous of you , ” Grod said .
And really , it makes but little difference to me just whom I practice archery upon .
Ho guard !
Bring the other prisoner in .
One of the soldiery accordingly withdrew , and presently returned with — Quivven !
Quivven , of all persons !
Cabot gasped , and so did the golden - furred Vairking maiden ; then both uttered simultaneously the single word , “ You ! ”
The savage chief smiled .
Said he , “
A slight mistake , guard ; I meant you to bring the Roy soldier who was captured with this furless one early this morning .
While the Roy was speaking an idea occurred to Cabot : He was entitled by the code of honor of this savage race to save a life .
Chivalry demanded that he save the life of this maiden rather than that of himself , or even the soldier who had rescued him from Att the Terrible .
Yet what would Lilla think ?
For him to sacrifice himself and her , or even merely himself , for the sake of some strange woman , would fill Lilla with consuming jealousy .
Luckily Lilla was not here to see him make his choice .
He was an officer and a gentleman , to whom but one course lay open .
And if he decided in the way that would displease Lilla , then that very decision would forever prevent Lilla from knowing .
So , his mind made up , he spoke :
O king , you still owe me a life .
Quivven the Golden Flame stared at him with tears of gratitude and appreciation in her azure eyes .
Grod the Silent smiled knowingly in a manner which infuriated Myles , but fortunately Quivven did not notice this ,
so Myles let it pass .
Then the Roy king spoke : “
We shall see about that later .
Meanwhile , guard , bring in the right prisoner .
The guard sheepishly withdrew , and soon returned with the soldier who had befriended Myles .
Why did you rescue this furless Vairking , who was a prisoner of your forces ? ”
Grod asked the newcomer .
Because he rescued me from a mountain torrent , O king , ” was the reply .
A life for a life .
Quite true , ” Grod admitted , nodding his head contemplatively .
But was it altogether necessary to that end that you leave your own forces ? ”
No , O king , ” the soldier replied , “
but I fain would battle on your side .
I have had quite enough of the fat one who commands our outfit .
Good ! ” cried Grod , clapping his hands .
We shall need every man we can muster .
Thus have you bought your own life and freedom .
Unbind him , guards , and give him weapons , so that he may fight for us .
As for you , you yellow minx , the quicker you get out of here the better it will suit me .
We are at war , and women have no place in warfare .
Therefore I gladly give you your life , which this furless one had purchased .
Besides , if I were to keep you , my enemy might get hold of you and collect the ransom himself , which would never do .
As for you , ” turning to Myles , “ your life is mine , since you failed to redeem it .
Some day I may call upon you for it , but for the present I wish to use it .
You are detailed , as my personal representative , to escort this lady safely to Vairkingi .
Now both of you get out of here , for I have more important things to do .
I must put my army on the march .
One of the guards stepped up to Myles and cut his bonds .
Quivven had not been bound .
May I have arms , O king , so that I can fulfill your mission with credit to you ? ”
Myles asked , with a twinkle in his gray eyes .
You keep on improving , ” Grod replied .
Yes , you may .
Here , take my own sword .
You are a brave man and an able warrior , as my chin well remembers .
May the Builder grant that some day we shall fight side by side .
This gave Cabot an idea .
Why can that not be now ? ” he suggested .
Why not form an alliance with Vairkingi against the unmentionable one ? ”
But Grod the Silent shook his head .
No , ” he said positively , “ it can not be .
I have spoken .
Then Cabot had a further idea .
About the wagons , ” he said , “ would you mind sending for them to my brickyard north of Vairkingi ?
That would be more convenient .
Very well , ” Grod replied .
Roy warriors then supplied the two prisoners with portable rations , and escorted them for quite a distance from the camp , until they struck a mountain trail .
This , the escort informed them , led to Vairkingi .
There the Roies left Myles and Quivven alone .
The first thing that she asked was , “
With all these mountains full of warring Roies , do you believe that we shall be safe ? ”
I think so , ” Myles replied .
The very fact that they are at war will keep them much too busy to bother about us .
Come on .
As they hurried down the trail , each related his or her adventures to the other .
Cabot ’s have already been set down .
Did Grod treat you with respect ? ”
Myles asked , with clenched fists .
Absolutely , ” she replied , tossing her pretty head .
I never knew a man so impersonal .
I am accustomed to have men recognize my presence and pay some attention to my existence .
But this brute —
why , I might just as well have been a piece of furniture or one of his servants .
I do n’t
believe he knows now what color my eyes are , or whether I ’m pretty or not .
And you ’re
just as bad as he is , ” she added somewhat irrelevantly .
Your eyes are blue , and you are very pretty , ” Cabot replied .
In fact , you closely resemble my own wife , the beautiful Princess Lilla , who waits for me far across the boiling seas .
Which reminds me to ask , ” Quivven said abruptly .
How successful was your expedition , apart from your being captured and getting yourself into all kinds of trouble ?
So he told her about the glistening metallic particles in the sands of the river .
Also how he had found what were probably zinc - blende and galena .
Then they discussed in detail his plans for his various factories .
From time to time they munched some of the food which had been given them .
Quivven was for stopping and resting , but Myles urged her on .
No matter how tired you are , ” he said , “ it is not safe to stop in this strange country .
So still she struggled on .
The sky darkened without the usual pinkening of the west .
All too well they knew what that portended
— one of the heaven - splitting tropical storms so common on Poros .
And they were right .
The storm broke , the thunder roared in one continuous volume of sound , the lightning and the rain alike poured down in continuous sheets .
The rain stopped as abruptly as it had begun .
Again the silver sky appeared overhead .
Several times Quivven stumbled and fell , until at last her companion had to help her in order to keep her going at all .
But , in spite of this assistance , she finally broke down and cried .
I shall not go one step farther , ” she asserted .
Myles seated himself beside her and talked to her as one would soothe a child .
And that was what she was , a tired little child .
You ca n’t stay here
, ” he urged , “ the ground is damp , the night is coming on , and your fur is sopping wet .
I do n’t care anything about anything , ” she sobbed .
All that I know is that I positively can not go on .
So he decided that it would be necessary to change his tactics .
I am ashamed of you , ” he replied , “
You , the daughter of a king , and ca n’t stand a little exercise !
Why , I believe you are just plain lazy .
For reply she jumped to her feet in a sudden rage .
Oh , you beast !
” she cried .
You insulting beast !
You common soldier , you !
Oh , I hate you ,
I hate you , I hate you ! ”
You are not being forced to endure more than is necessary , ” her escort harshly replied .
In the first place it is necessary to go on ; and , in the second place , I am not forcing you .
Good - by ! ”
For reply Quivven raced ahead of him with , “
Oh , how I hate you ! ” and disappeared around a turn in the trail .
XIII FURTHER PROGRESS
His change of tactics had worked , although it made him feel like a brute .
But only by arousing Quivven ’s anger could he stir her to continue the journey ; and to remain would have menaced her safety and her health .
She had a good head start of him .
The silver sky was turning crimson in the west .
Night was coming on .
So he hurried after her down the wet and slippery trail .
Time and again his foot would touch something soft , which he would picture as some strange and weird Porovian animal , a gnooper for instance .
Quickly he would withdraw the foot .
Poor Quivven !
How terrified she must be at such encounters !
After a while he got a bit used to these occurrences , and accordingly each succeeding one of them delayed him less than the preceding .
You know , ” he said to himself ,
Just then his groping foot touched another of these soft objects .
Get out of my way , ” Cabot shouted , and gave it a kick .
But this time it was not attached to the soil .
It yielded and wriggled a bit .
Then it gave a peculiar groaning sound .
Myles leaped backward and waited .
But nothing happened ; so he tried to circle the creature .
Again the groan .
His scientific curiosity got the better of his caution .
He approached once more and investigated more closely , reaching down with his hand .
The animal was covered with wet and muddy fur .
It was Quivven !
Tenderly he raised the crumpled form in his arms , and groped on down the treacherous trail .
Myles wondered how long he could bear up with this dead weight in his arms .
They had reached the plain .
” he cried joyfully .
This is home !
There ahead lies Vairkingi ! ”
But she made no reply .
Her body was cold and still .
Quickly he laid her on the ground and placed one ear to her chest .
Thank the Great Builder !
Her heart still beat .
So he chafed her hands and feet , and worked her arms violently back and forth until she began to groan protestingly .
Quivven ! ”
he cried .
Wake up !
We are home !
Are you here , Myles ? ”
she murmured faintly ,
Yes . ”
And you wo n’t make me walk any more ? ”
No . ”
Then I ’ll
wake up for you
, ” she murmured cheerfully , and promptly fell fast asleep .
Again lifting her tenderly in his arms , he resumed the journey .
Where am I ? ” she asked .
At the gates of Vairkingi , ” Myles answered .
She ran her hands rapidly over her mud - caked fur .
Oh , but I ca n’t go in like this , ” she wailed , “
I ’m covered with mud from head to foot !
Think how I must look !
No , I refuse to go in .
Better far to go in now , and take a chance of being seen by only one sentinel .
Oh , you beast , you beast !
she sobbed , beating him futilely with her tiny paws .
For reply he seized her in his arms , swung her across one hip , and shouted : “
Open wide the gates of Vairkingi for Cabot the Minorian , magician to Jud the Excuse - Maker , and to his Excellency Theoph the Grim ! ”
The gates swung open , and the sentinel stared at them with surprise and some amusement .
Myles whipped out his sword , and the smile froze on the soldier ’s face .
Thus do I teach men not to laugh at Myles Cabot , ” the earth - man growled .
Remember that you have seen nothing .
And he handed the soldier the choice blade of Grod the Silent .
The soldier smiled again .
I have seen nothing but a Roy , whom I robbed of his sword and drove off into the darkness .
It is a fine sword , and I will remember that I have seen nothing .
May the Great Builder bless Myles Cabot the Minorian .
Cabot glanced at his burden , Quivven , the beautiful .
No wonder she did not want to be seen .
It always humiliates a lady not to look her best in public .
But by the same token , no one could possibly recognize her .
He might perfectly well have saved the sword .
So he passed on through the city streets .
Finally he had to put the girl down , and ask her to help him find the way , which she did grudgingly .
At the gate of Jud ’s compound , Myles again swung her across his hip , before he demanded entrance .
No swords this time , for diplomacy would take the place of payment .
Myles Cabot demanding entrance , ” he cried .
The local guard inspected them carefully by the light of his torch .
It is Cabot all right , ” he replied , “ and
you look as though you had seen some hard fighting .
But who is this with you ? ”
A girl of the Roies , ” answered Myles .
That is what the fighting was about .
“ Not for mine ! ” the soldier asserted , grimacing .
Though there is no accounting for tastes .
They are filthy little beasts , and spitfires as well , so I ’m told .
My advice to you , sir , is to throw it down a well .
Quivven wriggled protestingly .
Perhaps I will , ” Myles laughed .
Quivven kept to her rooms , but one of the other maids roguishly informed him : “
The Golden One says she hates you .
First he designed a furnace for roasting his ore .
This furnace was to be in two sections , one above the other , the lower holding the charcoal fire , and the upper holding the ore .
Later he planned to use the sulphur fumes of this roaster to make sulphuric acid , which in turn he would use to make sal ammoniac for his batteries .
But at present he had not yet figured out this process in detail .
Near the bottom were to be a number of small holes leading from an air passage .
From gnooper hide and wood he could easily construct bellows to pump in the air for the blast .
Molten copper - matte and slag would be separately run off through two separate openings at different levels near the bottom of the blast furnace .
For the extraction of iron , he made crucibles of fireclay , which he set in deep holes in the ground .
On the second morning after the unpleasant homecoming , Quivven appeared .
All her rage had burned out , and she was meek and subdued .
With downcast eyes she reported to Myles :
I am ready to go to work now .
My dear little girl , ” he admonished , “ most of our troubles last time came from your following me .
This time I warn you that I shall be very displeased if you fail to stick closely to home and complete my two magic furnaces for me .
Promise me that you will .
So , with tears of dread in her blue eyes , she promised ; and the expedition set forth .
They were gone about five days .
The trip proved uneventful from any except a scientific viewpoint .
They found that , under the skillful direction of little Quivven , the furnaces were nearly completed .
Quivven the Golden Flame was overjoyed at Cabot ’s safe return , while even he had to confess considerable relief .
He complimented her warmly on the progress of the furnaces , and noted her pleasure at his expressions of approval .
A few details which had perplexed her were quickly straightened out , and the work was rushed to completion .
He next tested the silver grains which he had brought from the river .
His method was a very simple one , invented by himself .
A simple mathematical calculation from these three weights gave him the specific gravity of the metal .
As a further test he hammered some of the supposed platinum into a thin sheet , and attempted , without success , to melt it .
This test convinced him that he truly had found platinum .
Cabot next turned his attention to glass making .
For ordinary glass he would need quartz , soda , potash , and limestone .
For glass for his tubes he would use litharge in place of the limestone .
The quartz and the limestone were already available .
He started this process at once .
But he had no idea how to make litharge .
Furthermore , he could not blow his glass until he had metal tubes , so he abandoned further steps for the present .
While he was pondering over these problems a messenger arrived , demanding his immediate presence at the quarters of Jud the Excuse - Maker .
Jud was in a state of great excitement when the earth - man arrived .
Said Jud :
Yes , ” Cabot replied .
I hope that by this time I have given sufficient demonstration of my truthfulness so that you now believe the story .
Oh , I believed it at the time , ” Jud hastily explained , “
But now I have proof of it , for we have captured one of these beasts .
That is , we think it is one of them .
I want you to see and identify it , before we present it to Theoph the Grim .
Thereby displaying commendable foresight , ” Myles commented .
Where is this Formian ? ”
In a cage in the zoo , ” the Vairking noble replied .
; I will take you there .
So together the two threaded the streets of Vairkingi to the zoo .
This was part of the city which the earth - man had never before visited .
Its denizens fascinated him .
There were huge water snakes with humanlike hands .
But at this point Jud urged him on into another room , where he promptly forgot all the other creatures in the sight which met his eyes .
“ Stop ! ”
Jud shouted at the soldiery , whereat they all fell back obediently .
This called the attention of the imprisoned beast to the newcomers , so he looked up and stared at them .
Cabot stared back .
Then he rushed forward to the cage !
XIV OLD FRIENDS
” he cried .
They told me you were dead ! ”
But of course all this was lost on the radio speech sense of the prisoner .
Vairking soldiers interposed their spears between Myles Cabot and what they believed was sure destruction at the jaws of the black beast .
Cabot recoiled .
Jud , ” he called out , “ order off your henchmen !
I am not crazy , nor do I court death .
This creature is the only one of the Formians whom I can control .
He will prove a valuable ally for us , if I can persuade him to forgive the indignities which your men have already heaped upon him .
“ Remember that I am a magician , ” Myles returned somewhat testily .
Then seeing that Jud was still obdurate , he addressed the guards .
You know me for a magician ? ”
Yes , ” they sullenly admitted .
And you know the magic on which I am now engaged , and to which all of my recent expeditions relate ? ”
Yes , ” one replied .
You seek to call down the lightnings of heaven , and harness them to transport your words across the boiling seas .
Rightly spoken !
” the Radio Man asserted .
Therefore , if you do not stand aside , I shall call those lightnings down for another purpose , namely , to blast you .
Stand aside !
One of the guards spoke to another , “
Why should we risk our lives to save his ?
Let the magician save himself ! ”
So they stood aside .
Myles stepped up to the cage , and he and Doggo each patted the other ’s cheek through the bars .
Jud the Excuse - Maker sheepishly explained , “
I knew that you were speaking the truth , but I wished to learn what method you would use to handle the soldiers .
You did nobly .
” the earth - man ejaculated , well knowing that the Vairking would not understand him .
What means that word ? ”
Jud inquired , much interested .
Jud , highly complimented , let it go at that .
Myles now ordered paper and a charcoal pencil , and began a conversation with his ant friend .
They told me you were dead , ” he wrote .
Or I never would have left the city of Yuriana or deserted your cause .
My cause died with my daughter , the queen , ” Doggo replied .
I alone survive .
I escaped by plane , and have been flitting around the country ever since , until my alcohol gave out .
Then these furry Cupians captured me .
They got me with a net so that I could not fight back .
Now tell me of yourself .
How do you stand with these furry Cupians ? ”
They are not Cupians .
” Myles wrote .
Do you remember the old legend of Cupia , that creatures like me dwell beyond the boiling seas ?
Well , it appears to have been true , though how any one could have known or even suspected it , is a mystery to me .
You have not yet told me how you stand , ” the ant - man reminded him .
Just as you did for the Cupians , ” Doggo mused .
But you will have a harder task here , for these furry creatures appear to know no metals , nor any of the arts save woodcarving .
They patted each other ’s cheeks again .
Then , before any one could interfere , Myles Cabot unbolted the door of the cage , and out walked Doggo , a free ant once more .
The soldiery , and Jud with them , promptly scattered to the four walls of the room .
Come over here , Jud , ” Myles invited , “ and meet my friend —
that is , unless you are afraid .
Oh , no , I do not fear him , ” Jud the Excuse - Maker replied , “
but I do not consider it consistent with the dignity of my position to be seen fraternizing with a wild beast .
It was typical .
Myles laughed .
Then he led the huge ant home with him to his quarters .
As soon as the Formian had been fed and assigned to a room in the ménage — some improvement over the menagerie , by the way
his host and hostess took him on a tour of inspection of their laboratory .
His scientific training would dovetail exactly with that of the earth - man , and would supplement it at every point .
Almost at the very start he suggested a solution of the problems which had been puzzling Myles .
His recollection of nitric acid manufacture was that it required sulphuric acid among other ingredients .
So how was he to make either acid without first having the other ?
And furthermore , where was he to procure enough lead to build a two - hundred - foot tunnel ?
Doggo solved these problems very nicely — by avoiding them .
What do you need sulphuric add for ? ” he wrote .
Merely to use in making hydrochloric acid , ” wrote the earth - man in reply .
And that ? ”
To use in making sal ammoniac for my batteries .
Do you need nitric acid for anything except the manufacture of sulphuric ?
No . ”
Then , ” Doggo suggested , “ let us make our sal ammoniac directly from its elements .
We shall build a series of about twenty vertical cast - iron retorts , as soon as you have smelted your iron .
These we shall fill with damp salt , pressed into blocks and dried .
We shall heat these retorts with charcoal fires , and through them we shall pass then , air , and the sulphur fumes of your ore - roasting .
The liquid , which condenses at the end of the series , will be diluted hydrochloric acid .
By passing the fumes of roast animal - refuse through it we shall convert it into sal ammoniac solution .
Accordingly , the quicker they started their foundry operations , the better .
By this time chalcopyrite , quartz , and charcoal were present at Vairkingi in large quantities .
By this time it was night , but no one thought of stopping .
Of course , there were complications .
Along toward morning Cabot drew his first heat of molten matter into a brick ladle and poured it into the converter .
It was an impressive sight .
In the darkness of the background , toiled the workers at their pumps .
Then there came a change .
Again the red glare , as the ladle was poured into the barrel - shaped converter .
Then the pumps were started again , and the blast from the converter replaced that of the furnace with its ghostly light .
Two hours later the converter was tipped , and pure molten copper was poured out into the ladle .
Once more the sinister ruddiness .
Quickly the molds were filled , the red light was gone , the spell was broken , conversation was resumed .
The first metallurgy of Vairkingi was an accomplished fact .
Day came , and with it loud pounding on the gate .
Cabot answered it , carelessly and abstractedly sliding back the bolt before inquiring who was outside .
The gate swung open with a bang , almost knocking Myles into a flower bed , and in rushed a Vairking youth with drawn sword and panting heavily .
You beast !
” he cried , lunging at the earth - man as he spoke .
Quick as lightning the boy
’s sword arm was bent up behind his back , and he was “ in chancery ” , to use the wrestling term .
Smiling , Cabot stooped down and picked it up , and forced the young intruder against the wall .
Now , ” said the earth - man , “ explain yourself .
The boy faced Myles like a cornered panther .
It ’s Quivven , ” he snarled .
You have stolen my Quivven .
“ Nonsense ! ”
Myles exclaimed .
What do you mean ? ”
I am Tipi the Steadfast , ” the youth replied .
Long have I loved the Golden Flame , and she me , until you came to this city .
When you arrived I was away on a military expedition , winning distinctions to lay at the tiny feet of my fair one .
Last night I returned to find her working at your laboratory .
One or the other , you or I , must die .
You are absurd ! ”
I repeat that Quivven— ”
Then Myles barred the gate , and turned toward the house .
In the doorway stood Quivven , shaking with laughter .
Myles was immediately embarrassed .
He had n’t known that his encounter had been observed .
He hated to show off , and was afraid that his actions had appeared very melodramatic .
Is n’t Tipi silly ? ” she asked .
But he may make trouble with your father , ” Myles said , with a worried frown .
Oh , I ’m not afraid of father .
But he will put an end to my experiments .
So Quivven went home to chat with her father before young Tipi could get there to stir up possible trouble .
She returned later in the day to resume her work .
While she was gone , Cabot conferred with Doggo .
Why are you building this radio set ?
” the ant - man wrote .
I did not ask you before in the presence of the lady ,
for I felt that perhaps you did not wish her to know your plans .
Doggo , you show remarkable intuition , ” Myles wrote in reply .
It is true that I do not wish any of the Vairkings to know .
All that we need is alcohol for the trophil - engines .
XV PLANS FOR ESCAPE
The Vairkings like sleight - of - hand , and wish to keep me with them as their court magician .
Let us bide our time until they become sufficiently accustomed to you , so that they will not question your accompanying me on an expedition .
Then , away to the plane , and off to Cupia ! ”
The ant - man assented .
It seemed logical .
And yet I wonder if this logic would not have done credit to Jud the Excuse - Maker .
I wonder if Cabot was not subconsciously influenced by a scientific desire to complete his radio set in this land of people who used only wood and flint .
I wonder .
At all events , the work proceeded .
Fortunately , however , he ran across a deposit of magnetic iron ore near Vairkingi .
This he ground and placed in his crucibles with charcoal , and they built charcoal fires in the pits around them .
The slag he slammed off with copper — later iron — ladles .
This securing the proper carbon content was largely a matter of cut - and - try .
With iron and steel available , he now made pots , retorts , hammers , anvils , drills , wire - drawing dies , and a decent Bessemer converter .
Copper tubes for glass - blowing , and copper wire were drawn .
A simple wooden lathe was made for winding thread around the wires .
This thread , by the way , was the only Vairkingian product which the earth - man found ready to his hand .
As soon as the iron retorts were available , the joint manufacture of sal ammoniac and soda was started , as already outlined by Doggo .
He used both soda and potash , as this would render the glass more fusible than if made with either alone .
Lead was melted from galena crystal in small quantities for solder .
And every returning military expedition brought with it samples of unusual minerals .
Meanwhile , Cabot instituted a regular campaign of getting Vairkingi accustomed to Doggo .
Every day , Doggo would parade the high - walled streets , with Quivven the Golden Flame perched upon his back .
The ten - foot ant inspired great interest and considerable fear .
Tipi had not been seen or heard from .
Arkilu the Beautiful thoroughly made up with the earth - man , and even admitted that her love for him had been a mistake .
Plans for her wedding with Jud proceeded rapidly .
When this coming marriage was publicly announced , Att the Terrible sent in a Roy runner with the message that he did n’t in the least care .
Quivven now lived in the palace , so as to be near her father , but came to work regularly each day .
Theoph the Grim interposed no objection to this , and , in fact , frequently accompanied his daughter to the laboratory .
He loved to mess around the bottles and retorts , and lost much of the grimness when engaged in this childish meddlesomeness .
So every one was happy except Tipi the Steadfast and Att the Terrible .
But to do this he had to make batteries .
To this end he already had sal ammoniac and jars .
He needed carbon and zinc .
For carbon he pressed charcoal into compact blocks .
To extract zinc from the blend ore he made long cylindrical retorts of clay , with a long clay pipe for a vent .
The result was to distill the pure zinc , which condensed on the walls of the tubes .
The platinum proved to be quite free of iridium , and so was easily drawn into wires .
Myles was going strong !
Could it be that the lost religion was also implanted upon this continent ?
Myles had never discussed religion with Arkilu , or Jud , or Quivven , or Crota , or any of his Vairking friends .
Somehow the subject had never come up .
Full of curiosity , Cabot knocked in the door .
Immediately a small round aperture opened and a voice from within inquired “ Whence come you ? ”
For reply , the earth - man gave one of the passwords of the Cupian religion .
What do you wish ? ” asked the guardian of the gate .
Having made his way so far , Myles decided to continue , on the analogy of the religion of his own continent .
Accordingly , he boldly replied , “
I wish to speak with the Holy Leader .
The knock was repeated from within , the door opened , and Myles entered to gaze upon a strangely familiar scene .
The room was richly carved and colored .
On three sides hung the stone lamps of the Vairkings .
Around the walls sat a score or more of long - robed priests , some on the level and some on slightly raised platforms .
Him the earth - man approached , and bowed low .
Whereat , there came the unexpected words :
Welcome to Vairkingi , Myles Cabot .
Then the priest descended , took the visitor by the hand , and led him to a seat at his own left .
A few minutes later , the assembly had been temporarily suspended , and Myles and his host were chatting together like old friends .
This interested the priest greatly , and he asked numerous questions in that connection .
Strange ! ” he ruminated .
It is undoubtedly the same religion as ours .
So there must at some time have been some connection between the two continents .
Yes , there must have been , ” the earth - man assented , “ for the written language of both Cupia and Vairkingi is the same .
Yet the totally different flora and fauna of the two continents negatives this history .
Where did the Cupians originate ,
if you know ? ” the priest inquired .
We do not know , ” Myles replied , “
but there are two conflicting legends .
One is that the forerunners of the race came from across the boiling seas .
The other is that they sprang , fully formed , from the soil .
Still more strange !
” the prelate declared .
For we have but one story of our origin .
The race of Vairkings descended from another world above the skies .
Who knows but that we , like you , came from that place which you call the planet — Minos , I think , you said ? ”
After some further conversation , the conclave was called to order again , and Myles took this as the signal for his departure .
He was given a warm invitation to return .
Truly , a new avenue of speculation had been opened up to him by his chance meeting with the Holy Leader .
Myles firmly resolved to return again at the earliest opportunity .
But , from this time on , events moved with such rapidity that never again did he enter the sacred precincts .
First , he was stumped by his radio tubes .
How was he to make a vacuum - pump which would exhaust the air ?
The solution , when it finally occurred to him , was absurdly simple ; he utilized atmospheric pressure .
Then he filled the tube with water , and inverted it .
But the water did not drop away to a height of about twenty - eight feet , as it would have done on Earth .
He then sealed off the upper portion of the glass tube with his blow - torch , and had his radio triad .
For these radio tubes , the glass was made according to a special formula .
Of this same glass , Cabot fashioned lenses for the goggles which he and Doggo planned to wear on their trip home across the boiling seas .
One of the constituents of this special glass is lead monoxide , commonly known as litharge .
This gave the Radio Man some concern , until Doggo suggested melting lead in a rotating cylindrical iron drum with spiral ribs .
By pumping cold air in one end of this drum , fine particles of litharge were driven out through the other , where they accumulated in a stationary container .
About this time the king and Jud began clamoring for results , so Cabot made a few electric lights with platinum filaments .
And entirely apart from pacifying his two patrons it was well that he did this ,
for the speedy burning out of these lights showed him that he had a new problem to face , namely :
the elimination of all traces of oxygen in his tubes .
He got rid of considerable by placing tubes in a strong magnetic field while exhausting , but this was not quite enough .
Two carts , laden with tents , food and bedding , were taken along , and beneath these supplies he placed the alcohol and goggles .
There was no need to conceal them , for none of the Vairkings , except Quivven , ever had any very distinct knowledge of what he was about , and
A squad of soldiers pulled the carts .
( i. e. , rifle ) .
Early in the morning they set forth , just as the unseen rising sun began to tint the eastern sky with purple .
When the time came to say farewell to Quivven Myles found to his surprise that his voice was positively choked with emotion .
Good - by , Golden Flame , ” he said .
Please wish me a safe journey .
Of course I do , ” she said , “
But why so sad ?
You sound as though you never expected to see me again .
One never can tell , ” he replied .
Your food has disagreed with you , ” she bantered .
I feel confident that you will return .
For have you not often quoted to me :
They can not kill a Minorian ?
Run along now , and come back safely .
Thus he left her , a smile on her face and a tear in his eye .
He hated to deceive Quivven , who had been a good little pal , in spite of her occasional flare - ups of temper .
He looked back and waved to her where she stood like a golden statue upon the city wall ; it would be his last glimpse of a true friend .
Then he set his face resolutely to the eastward .
Not only did he feel a pang at leaving Quivven , but he felt even more of a pang at leaving his radio - set half finished .
The scientist always predominated in his makeup ; and besides , like the good workman that he was , he hated an unfinished job .
But he realized that his radio project had been only a means to an end
the end being to get in touch with his friends and family in Cupia — and that this end was about to be accomplished more directly .
Just think , to - morrow night he would be home , ready to do battle for his loved ones against the usurper Yuri !
The thought thrilled him , and all regrets passed away .
